<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html
   PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
   "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd" >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>
      No Name, by Wilkie Collins
    </title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      PREFACE
    </h2>
    <p>
      THE main purpose of this story is to appeal to the reader&rsquo;s interest in a
      subject which has been the theme of some of the greatest writers, living
      and dead&mdash;but which has never been, and can never be, exhausted,
      because it is a subject eternally interesting to all mankind. Here is one
      more book that depicts the struggle of a human creature, under those
      opposing influences of Good and Evil, which we have all felt, which we
      have all known. It has been my aim to make the character of &ldquo;Magdalen,&rdquo;
       which personifies this struggle, a pathetic character even in its
      perversity and its error; and I have tried hard to attain this result by
      the least obtrusive and the least artificial of all means&mdash;by a
      resolute adherence throughout to the truth as it is in Nature. This design
      was no easy one to accomplish; and it has been a great encouragement to me
      (during the publication of my story in its periodical form) to know, on
      the authority of many readers, that the object which I had proposed to
      myself, I might, in some degree, consider as an object achieved.
    </p>
    <p>
      Round the central figure in the narrative other characters will be found
      grouped, in sharp contrast&mdash;contrast, for the most part, in which I
      have endeavored to make the element of humor mainly predominant. I have
      sought to impart this relief to the more serious passages in the book, not
      only because I believe myself to be justified in doing so by the laws of
      Art&mdash;but because experience has taught me (what the experience of my
      readers will doubtless confirm) that there is no such moral phenomenon as
      unmixed tragedy to be found in the world around us. Look where we may, the
      dark threads and the light cross each other perpetually in the texture of
      human life.
    </p>
    <p>
      To pass from the Characters to the Story, it will be seen that the
      narrative related in these pages has been constructed on a plan which
      differs from the plan followed in my last novel, and in some other of my
      works published at an earlier date. The only Secret contained in this book
      is revealed midway in the first volume. From that point, all the main
      events of the story are purposely foreshadowed before they take place&mdash;my
      present design being to rouse the reader&rsquo;s interest in following the train
      of circumstances by which these foreseen events are brought about. In
      trying this new ground, I am not turning my back in doubt on the ground
      which I have passed over already. My one object in following a new course
      is to enlarge the range of my studies in the art of writing fiction, and
      to vary the form in which I make my appeal to the reader, as attractively
      as I can.
    </p>
    <p>
      There is no need for me to add more to these few prefatory words than is
      here written. What I might otherwise have wished to say in this place, I
      have endeavored to make the book itself say for me.
    </p>
    <p>
      TO FRANCIS CARR BEARD (FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF
      ENGLAND), IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE TIME WHEN THE CLOSING SCENES OF THIS STORY
      WERE WRITTEN. 
    </p>
    <h1>
      NO NAME.
    </h1>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE FIRST SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      COMBE-RAVEN, SOMERSETSHIRE
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE hands on the hall-clock pointed to half-past six in the morning. The
      house was a country residence in West Somersetshire, called Combe-Raven.
      The day was the fourth of March, and the year was eighteen hundred and
      forty-six.
    </p>
    <p>
      No sounds but the steady ticking of the clock, and the lumpish snoring of
      a large dog stretched on a mat outside the dining-room door, disturbed the
      mysterious morning stillness of hall and staircase. Who were the sleepers
      hidden in the upper regions? Let the house reveal its own secrets; and,
      one by one, as they descend the stairs from their beds, let the sleepers
      disclose themselves.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the clock pointed to a quarter to seven, the dog woke and shook
      himself. After waiting in vain for the footman, who was accustomed to let
      him out, the animal wandered restlessly from one closed door to another on
      the ground-floor; and, returning to his mat in great perplexity, appealed
      to the sleeping family with a long and melancholy howl.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before the last notes of the dog&rsquo;s remonstrance had died away, the oaken
      stairs in the higher regions of the house creaked under slowly-descending
      footsteps. In a minute more the first of the female servants made her
      appearance, with a dingy woolen shawl over her shoulders&mdash;for the
      March morning was bleak; and rheumatism and the cook were old
      acquaintances.
    </p>
    <p>
      Receiving the dog&rsquo;s first cordial advances with the worst possible grace,
      the cook slowly opened the hall door and let the animal out. It was a wild
      morning. Over a spacious lawn, and behind a black plantation of firs, the
      rising sun rent its way upward through piles of ragged gray cloud; heavy
      drops of rain fell few and far between; the March wind shuddered round the
      corners of the house, and the wet trees swayed wearily.
    </p>
    <p>
      Seven o&rsquo;clock struck; and the signs of domestic life began to show
      themselves in more rapid succession.
    </p>
    <p>
      The housemaid came down&mdash;tall and slim, with the state of the spring
      temperature written redly on her nose. The lady&rsquo;s-maid followed&mdash;young,
      smart, plump, and sleepy. The kitchen-maid came next&mdash;afflicted with
      the face-ache, and making no secret of her sufferings. Last of all, the
      footman appeared, yawning disconsolately; the living picture of a man who
      felt that he had been defrauded of his fair night&rsquo;s rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      The conversation of the servants, when they assembled before the slowly
      lighting kitchen fire, referred to a recent family event, and turned at
      starting on this question: Had Thomas, the footman, seen anything of the
      concert at Clifton, at which his master and the two young ladies had been
      present on the previous night? Yes; Thomas had heard the concert; he had
      been paid for to go in at the back; it was a loud concert; it was a hot
      concert; it was described at the top of the bills as Grand; whether it was
      worth traveling sixteen miles to hear by railway, with the additional
      hardship of going back nineteen miles by road, at half-past one in the
      morning&mdash;was a question which he would leave his master and the young
      ladies to decide; his own opinion, in the meantime, being unhesitatingly,
      No. Further inquiries, on the part of all the female servants in
      succession, elicited no additional information of any sort. Thomas could
      hum none of the songs, and could describe none of the ladies&rsquo; dresses. His
      audience, accordingly, gave him up in despair; and the kitchen small-talk
      flowed back into its ordinary channels, until the clock struck eight and
      startled the assembled servants into separating for their morning&rsquo;s work.
    </p>
    <p>
      A quarter past eight, and nothing happened. Half-past&mdash;and more signs
      of life appeared from the bedroom regions. The next member of the family
      who came downstairs was Mr. Andrew Vanstone, the master of the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Tall, stout, and upright&mdash;with bright blue eyes, and healthy, florid
      complexion&mdash;his brown plush shooting-jacket carelessly buttoned awry;
      his vixenish little Scotch terrier barking unrebuked at his heels; one
      hand thrust into his waistcoat pocket, and the other smacking the
      banisters cheerfully as he came downstairs humming a tune&mdash;Mr.
      Vanstone showed his character on the surface of him freely to all men. An
      easy, hearty, handsome, good-humored gentleman, who walked on the sunny
      side of the way of life, and who asked nothing better than to meet all his
      fellow-passengers in this world on the sunny side, too. Estimating him by
      years, he had turned fifty. Judging him by lightness of heart, strength of
      constitution, and capacity for enjoyment, he was no older than most men
      who have only turned thirty.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thomas!&rdquo; cried Mr. Vanstone, taking up his old felt hat and his thick
      walking stick from the hall table. &ldquo;Breakfast, this morning, at ten. The
      young ladies are not likely to be down earlier after the concert last
      night.&mdash;By-the-by, how did you like the concert yourself, eh? You
      thought it was grand? Quite right; so it was. Nothing but crash-bang,
      varied now and then by bang-crash; all the women dressed within an inch of
      their lives; smothering heat, blazing gas, and no room for anybody&mdash;yes,
      yes, Thomas; grand&rsquo;s the word for it, and comfortable isn&rsquo;t.&rdquo; With that
      expression of opinion, Mr. Vanstone whistled to his vixenish terrier;
      flourished his stick at the hall door in cheerful defiance of the rain;
      and set off through wind and weather for his morning walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hands, stealing their steady way round the dial of the clock, pointed
      to ten minutes to nine. Another member of the family appeared on the
      stairs&mdash;Miss Garth, the governess.
    </p>
    <p>
      No observant eyes could have surveyed Miss Garth without seeing at once
      that she was a north-countrywoman. Her hard featured face; her masculine
      readiness and decision of movement; her obstinate honesty of look and
      manner, all proclaimed her border birth and border training. Though little
      more than forty years of age, her hair was quite gray; and she wore over
      it the plain cap of an old woman. Neither hair nor head-dress was out of
      harmony with her face&mdash;it looked older than her years: the hard
      handwriting of trouble had scored it heavily at some past time. The
      self-possession of her progress downstairs, and the air of habitual
      authority with which she looked about her, spoke well for her position in
      Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s family. This was evidently not one of the forlorn,
      persecuted, pitiably dependent order of governesses. Here was a woman who
      lived on ascertained and honorable terms with her employers&mdash;a woman
      who looked capable of sending any parents in England to the right-about,
      if they failed to rate her at her proper value.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Breakfast at ten?&rdquo; repeated Miss Garth, when the footman had answered the
      bell, and had mentioned his master&rsquo;s orders. &ldquo;Ha! I thought what would
      come of that concert last night. When people who live in the country
      patronize public amusements, public amusements return the compliment by
      upsetting the family afterward for days together. <i>You&rsquo;re</i> upset,
      Thomas, I can see your eyes are as red as a ferret&rsquo;s, and your cravat
      looks as if you had slept in it. Bring the kettle at a quarter to ten&mdash;and
      if you don&rsquo;t get better in the course of the day, come to me, and I&rsquo;ll
      give you a dose of physic. That&rsquo;s a well-meaning lad, if you only let him
      alone,&rdquo; continued Miss Garth, in soliloquy, when Thomas had retired; &ldquo;but
      he&rsquo;s not strong enough for concerts twenty miles off. They wanted <i>me</i>
      to go with them last night. Yes: catch me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Nine o&rsquo;clock struck; and the minute-hand stole on to twenty minutes past
      the hour, before any more footsteps were heard on the stairs. At the end
      of that time, two ladies appeared, descending to the breakfast-room
      together&mdash;Mrs. Vanstone and her eldest daughter.
    </p>
    <p>
      If the personal attractions of Mrs. Vanstone, at an earlier period of
      life, had depended solely on her native English charms of complexion and
      freshness, she must have long since lost the last relics of her fairer
      self. But her beauty as a young woman had passed beyond the average
      national limits; and she still preserved the advantage of her more
      exceptional personal gifts. Although she was now in her forty-fourth year;
      although she had been tried, in bygone times, by the premature loss of
      more than one of her children, and by long attacks of illness which had
      followed those bereavements of former years&mdash;she still preserved the
      fair proportion and subtle delicacy of feature, once associated with the
      all-adorning brightness and freshness of beauty, which had left her never
      to return. Her eldest child, now descending the stairs by her side, was
      the mirror in which she could look back and see again the reflection of
      her own youth. There, folded thick on the daughter&rsquo;s head, lay the massive
      dark hair, which, on the mother&rsquo;s, was fast turning gray. There, in the
      daughter&rsquo;s cheek, glowed the lovely dusky red which had faded from the
      mother&rsquo;s to bloom again no more. Miss Vanstone had already reached the
      first maturity of womanhood; she had completed her six-and-twentieth year.
      Inheriting the dark majestic character of her mother&rsquo;s beauty, she had yet
      hardly inherited all its charms. Though the shape of her face was the
      same, the features were scarcely so delicate, their proportion was
      scarcely so true. She was not so tall. She had the dark-brown eyes of her
      mother&mdash;full and soft, with the steady luster in them which Mrs.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s eyes had lost&mdash;and yet there was less interest, less
      refinement and depth of feeling in her expression: it was gentle and
      feminine, but clouded by a certain quiet reserve, from which her mother&rsquo;s
      face was free. If we dare to look closely enough, may we not observe that
      the moral force of character and the higher intellectual capacities in
      parents seem often to wear out mysteriously in the course of transmission
      to children? In these days of insidious nervous exhaustion and
      subtly-spreading nervous malady, is it not possible that the same rule may
      apply, less rarely than we are willing to admit, to the bodily gifts as
      well?
    </p>
    <p>
      The mother and daughter slowly descended the stairs together&mdash;the
      first dressed in dark brown, with an Indian shawl thrown over her
      shoulders; the second more simply attired in black, with a plain collar
      and cuffs, and a dark orange-colored ribbon over the bosom of her dress.
      As they crossed the hall and entered the breakfast-room, Miss Vanstone was
      full of the all-absorbing subject of the last night&rsquo;s concert.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am so sorry, mamma, you were not with us,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You have been so
      strong and so well ever since last summer&mdash;you have felt so many
      years younger, as you said yourself&mdash;that I am sure the exertion
      would not have been too much for you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps not, my love&mdash;but it was as well to keep on the safe side.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite as well,&rdquo; remarked Miss Garth, appearing at the breakfast-room
      door. &ldquo;Look at Norah (good-morning, my dear)&mdash;look, I say, at Norah.
      A perfect wreck; a living proof of your wisdom and mine in staying at
      home. The vile gas, the foul air, the late hours&mdash;what can you
      expect? She&rsquo;s not made of iron, and she suffers accordingly. No, my dear,
      you needn&rsquo;t deny it. I see you&rsquo;ve got a headache.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah&rsquo;s dark, handsome face brightened into a smile&mdash;then lightly
      clouded again with its accustomed quiet reserve.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A very little headache; not half enough to make me regret the concert,&rdquo;
       she said, and walked away by herself to the window.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the far side of a garden and paddock the view overlooked a stream, some
      farm buildings which lay beyond, and the opening of a wooded, rocky pass
      (called, in Somersetshire, a Combe), which here cleft its way through the
      hills that closed the prospect. A winding strip of road was visible, at no
      great distance, amid the undulations of the open ground; and along this
      strip the stalwart figure of Mr. Vanstone was now easily recognizable,
      returning to the house from his morning walk. He flourished his stick
      gayly, as he observed his eldest daughter at the window. She nodded and
      waved her hand in return, very gracefully and prettily&mdash;but with
      something of old-fashioned formality in her manner, which looked strangely
      in so young a woman, and which seemed out of harmony with a salutation
      addressed to her father.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hall-clock struck the adjourned breakfast-hour. When the minute hand
      had recorded the lapse of five minutes more a door banged in the bedroom
      regions&mdash;a clear young voice was heard singing blithely&mdash;light,
      rapid footsteps pattered on the upper stairs, descended with a jump to the
      landing, and pattered again, faster than ever, down the lower flight. In
      another moment the youngest of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s two daughters (and two only
      surviving children) dashed into view on the dingy old oaken stairs, with
      the suddenness of a flash of light; and clearing the last three steps into
      the hall at a jump, presented herself breathless in the breakfast-room to
      make the family circle complete.
    </p>
    <p>
      By one of those strange caprices of Nature, which science leaves still
      unexplained, the youngest of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s children presented no
      recognizable resemblance to either of her parents. How had she come by her
      hair? how had she come by her eyes? Even her father and mother had asked
      themselves those questions, as she grew up to girlhood, and had been
      sorely perplexed to answer them. Her hair was of that purely light-brown
      hue, unmixed with flaxen, or yellow, or red&mdash;which is oftener seen on
      the plumage of a bird than on the head of a human being. It was soft and
      plentiful, and waved downward from her low forehead in regular folds&mdash;but,
      to some tastes, it was dull and dead, in its absolute want of glossiness,
      in its monotonous purity of plain light color. Her eyebrows and eyelashes
      were just a shade darker than her hair, and seemed made expressly for
      those violet-blue eyes, which assert their most irresistible charm when
      associated with a fair complexion. But it was here exactly that the
      promise of her face failed of performance in the most startling manner.
      The eyes, which should have been dark, were incomprehensibly and
      discordantly light; they were of that nearly colorless gray which, though
      little attractive in itself, possesses the rare compensating merit of
      interpreting the finest gradations of thought, the gentlest changes of
      feeling, the deepest trouble of passion, with a subtle transparency of
      expression which no darker eyes can rival. Thus quaintly
      self-contradictory in the upper part of her face, she was hardly less at
      variance with established ideas of harmony in the lower. Her lips had the
      true feminine delicacy of form, her cheeks the lovely roundness and
      smoothness of youth&mdash;but the mouth was too large and firm, the chin
      too square and massive for her sex and age. Her complexion partook of the
      pure monotony of tint which characterized her hair&mdash;it was of the
      same soft, warm, creamy fairness all over, without a tinge of color in the
      cheeks, except on occasions of unusual bodily exertion or sudden mental
      disturbance. The whole countenance&mdash;so remarkable in its strongly
      opposed characteristics&mdash;was rendered additionally striking by its
      extraordinary mobility. The large, electric, light-gray eyes were hardly
      ever in repose; all varieties of expression followed each other over the
      plastic, ever-changing face, with a giddy rapidity which left sober
      analysis far behind in the race. The girl&rsquo;s exuberant vitality asserted
      itself all over her, from head to foot. Her figure&mdash;taller than her
      sister&rsquo;s, taller than the average of woman&rsquo;s height; instinct with such a
      seductive, serpentine suppleness, so lightly and playfully graceful, that
      its movements suggested, not unnaturally, the movements of a young cat&mdash;her
      figure was so perfectly developed already that no one who saw her could
      have supposed that she was only eighteen. She bloomed in the full physical
      maturity of twenty years or more&mdash;bloomed naturally and irresistibly,
      in right of her matchless health and strength. Here, in truth, lay the
      mainspring of this strangely-constituted organization. Her headlong course
      down the house stairs; the brisk activity of all her movements; the
      incessant sparkle of expression in her face; the enticing gayety which
      took the hearts of the quietest people by storm&mdash;even the reckless
      delight in bright colors which showed itself in her brilliantly-striped
      morning dress, in her fluttering ribbons, in the large scarlet rosettes on
      her smart little shoes&mdash;all sprang alike from the same source; from
      the overflowing physical health which strengthened every muscle, braced
      every nerve, and set the warm young blood tingling through her veins, like
      the blood of a growing child.
    </p>
    <p>
      On her entry into the breakfast-room, she was saluted with the customary
      remonstrance which her flighty disregard of all punctuality habitually
      provoked from the long-suffering household authorities. In Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      favorite phrase, &ldquo;Magdalen was born with all the senses&mdash;except a
      sense of order.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen! It was a strange name to have given her? Strange, indeed; and
      yet, chosen under no extraordinary circumstances. The name had been borne
      by one of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s sisters, who had died in early youth; and, in
      affectionate remembrance of her, he had called his second daughter by it&mdash;just
      as he had called his eldest daughter Norah, for his wife&rsquo;s sake. Magdalen!
      Surely, the grand old Bible name&mdash;suggestive of a sad and somber
      dignity; recalling, in its first association, mournful ideas of penitence
      and seclusion&mdash;had been here, as events had turned out,
      inappropriately bestowed? Surely, this self-contradictory girl had
      perversely accomplished one contradiction more, by developing into a
      character which was out of all harmony with her own Christian name!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Late again!&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone, as Magdalen breathlessly kissed her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Late again!&rdquo; chimed in Miss Garth, when Magdalen came her way next.
      &ldquo;Well?&rdquo; she went on, taking the girl&rsquo;s chin familiarly in her hand, with a
      half-satirical, half-fond attention which betrayed that the youngest
      daughter, with all her faults, was the governess&rsquo;s favorite&mdash;&ldquo;Well?
      and what has the concert done for <i>you?</i> What form of suffering has
      dissipation inflicted on <i>your</i> system this morning?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suffering!&rdquo; repeated Magdalen, recovering her breath, and the use of her
      tongue with it. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know the meaning of the word: if there&rsquo;s anything
      the matter with me, I&rsquo;m too well. Suffering! I&rsquo;m ready for another concert
      to-night, and a ball to-morrow, and a play the day after. Oh,&rdquo; cried
      Magdalen, dropping into a chair and crossing her hands rapturously on the
      table, &ldquo;how I do like pleasure!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come! that&rsquo;s explicit at any rate,&rdquo; said Miss Garth. &ldquo;I think Pope must
      have had you in his mind when he wrote his famous lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Men some to business, some to pleasure take, But every woman is at heart
      a rake.&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The deuce she is!&rdquo; cried Mr. Vanstone, entering the room while Miss Garth
      was making her quotation, with the dogs at his heels. &ldquo;Well; live and
      learn. If you&rsquo;re all rakes, Miss Garth, the sexes are turned topsy-turvy
      with a vengeance; and the men will have nothing left for it but to stop at
      home and darn the stockings.&mdash;Let&rsquo;s have some breakfast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How-d&rsquo;ye-do, papa?&rdquo; said Magdalen, taking Mr. Vanstone as boisterously
      round the neck as if he belonged to some larger order of Newfoundland dog,
      and was made to be romped with at his daughter&rsquo;s convenience. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m the
      rake Miss Garth means; and I want to go to another concert&mdash;or a
      play, if you like&mdash;or a ball, if you prefer it&mdash;or anything else
      in the way of amusement that puts me into a new dress, and plunges me into
      a crowd of people, and illuminates me with plenty of light, and sets me in
      a tingle of excitement all over, from head to foot. Anything will do, as
      long as it doesn&rsquo;t send us to bed at eleven o&rsquo;clock.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone sat down composedly under his daughter&rsquo;s flow of language,
      like a man who was well used to verbal inundation from that quarter. &ldquo;If I
      am to be allowed my choice of amusements next time,&rdquo; said the worthy
      gentleman, &ldquo;I think a play will suit me better than a concert. The girls
      enjoyed themselves amazingly, my dear,&rdquo; he continued, addressing his wife.
      &ldquo;More than I did, I must say. It was altogether above my mark. They played
      one piece of music which lasted forty minutes. It stopped three times,
      by-the-way; and we all thought it was done each time, and clapped our
      hands, rejoiced to be rid of it. But on it went again, to our great
      surprise and mortification, till we gave it up in despair, and all wished
      ourselves at Jericho. Norah, my dear! when we had crash-bang for forty
      minutes, with three stoppages by-the-way, what did they call it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A symphony, papa,&rdquo; replied Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, you darling old Goth, a symphony by the great Beethoven!&rdquo; added
      Magdalen. &ldquo;How can you say you were not amused? Have you forgotten the
      yellow-looking foreign woman, with the unpronounceable name? Don&rsquo;t you
      remember the faces she made when she sang? and the way she courtesied and
      courtesied, till she cheated the foolish people into crying encore? Look
      here, mamma&mdash;look here, Miss Garth!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She snatched up an empty plate from the table, to represent a sheet of
      music, held it before her in the established concert-room position, and
      produced an imitation of the unfortunate singer&rsquo;s grimaces and
      courtesyings, so accurately and quaintly true to the original, that her
      father roared with laughter; and even the footman (who came in at that
      moment with the post-bag) rushed out of the room again, and committed the
      indecorum of echoing his master audibly on the other side of the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Letters, papa. I want the key,&rdquo; said Magdalen, passing from the imitation
      at the breakfast-table to the post-bag on the sideboard with the easy
      abruptness which characterized all her actions.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone searched his pockets and shook his head. Though his youngest
      daughter might resemble him in nothing else, it was easy to see where
      Magdalen&rsquo;s unmethodical habits came from.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I dare say I have left it in the library, along with my other keys,&rdquo; said
      Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;Go and look for it, my dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You really should check Magdalen,&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Vanstone, addressing her
      husband when her daughter had left the room. &ldquo;Those habits of mimicry are
      growing on her; and she speaks to you with a levity which it is positively
      shocking to hear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Exactly what I have said myself, till I am tired of repeating it,&rdquo;
       remarked Miss Garth. &ldquo;She treats Mr. Vanstone as if he was a kind of
      younger brother of hers.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are kind to us in everything else, papa; and you make kind allowances
      for Magdalen&rsquo;s high spirits&mdash;don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo; said the quiet Norah, taking
      her father&rsquo;s part and her sister&rsquo;s with so little show of resolution on
      the surface that few observers would have been sharp enough to detect the
      genuine substance beneath it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, my dear,&rdquo; said good-natured Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;Thank you for a
      very pretty speech. As for Magdalen,&rdquo; he continued, addressing his wife
      and Miss Garth, &ldquo;she&rsquo;s an unbroken filly. Let her caper and kick in the
      paddock to her heart&rsquo;s content. Time enough to break her to harness when
      she gets a little older.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The door opened, and Magdalen returned with the key. She unlocked the
      post-bag at the sideboard and poured out the letters in a heap. Sorting
      them gayly in less than a minute, she approached the breakfast-table with
      both hands full, and delivered the letters all round with the
      business-like rapidity of a London postman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Two for Norah,&rdquo; she announced, beginning with her sister. &ldquo;Three for Miss
      Garth. None for mamma. One for me. And the other six all for papa. You
      lazy old darling, you hate answering letters, don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo; pursued
      Magdalen, dropping the postman&rsquo;s character and assuming the daughter&rsquo;s.
      &ldquo;How you will grumble and fidget in the study! and how you will wish there
      were no such things as letters in the world! and how red your nice old
      bald head will get at the top with the worry of writing the answers; and
      how many of the answers you will leave until tomorrow after all! <i>The
      Bristol Theater&rsquo;s open, papa,</i>&rdquo; she whispered, slyly and suddenly, in
      her father&rsquo;s ear; &ldquo;I saw it in the newspaper when I went to the library to
      get the key. Let&rsquo;s go to-morrow night!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While his daughter was chattering, Mr. Vanstone was mechanically sorting
      his letters. He turned over the first four in succession and looked
      carelessly at the addresses. When he came to the fifth his attention,
      which had hitherto wandered toward Magdalen, suddenly became fixed on the
      post-mark of the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      Stooping over him, with her head on his shoulder, Magdalen could see the
      post-mark as plainly as her father saw it&mdash;NEW ORLEANS.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An American letter, papa!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Who do you know at New Orleans?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone started, and looked eagerly at her husband the moment
      Magdalen spoke those words.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone said nothing. He quietly removed his daughter&rsquo;s arm from his
      neck, as if he wished to be free from all interruption. She returned,
      accordingly, to her place at the breakfast-table. Her father, with the
      letter in his hand, waited a little before he opened it; her mother
      looking at him, the while, with an eager, expectant attention which
      attracted Miss Garth&rsquo;s notice, and Norah&rsquo;s, as well as Magdalen&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a minute or more of hesitation Mr. Vanstone opened the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      His face changed color the instant he read the first lines; his cheeks
      fading to a dull, yellow-brown hue, which would have been ashy paleness in
      a less florid man; and his expression becoming saddened and overclouded in
      a moment. Norah and Magdalen, watching anxiously, saw nothing but the
      change that passed over their father. Miss Garth alone observed the effect
      which that change produced on the attentive mistress of the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was not the effect which she, or any one, could have anticipated. Mrs.
      Vanstone looked excited rather than alarmed. A faint flush rose on her
      cheeks&mdash;her eyes brightened&mdash;she stirred the tea round and round
      in her cup in a restless, impatient manner which was not natural to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen, in her capacity of spoiled child, was, as usual, the first to
      break the silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What <i>is</i> the matter, papa?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing,&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone, sharply, without looking up at her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure there must be something,&rdquo; persisted Magdalen. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure there is
      bad news, papa, in that American letter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is nothing in the letter that concerns <i>you</i>,&rdquo; said Mr.
      Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was the first direct rebuff that Magdalen had ever received from her
      father. She looked at him with an incredulous surprise, which would have
      been irresistibly absurd under less serious circumstances.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nothing more was said. For the first time, perhaps, in their lives, the
      family sat round the breakfast-table in painful silence. Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      hearty morning appetite, like his hearty morning spirits, was gone. He
      absently broke off some morsels of dry toast from the rack near him,
      absently finished his first cup of tea&mdash;then asked for a second,
      which he left before him untouched.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah,&rdquo; he said, after an interval, &ldquo;you needn&rsquo;t wait for me. Magdalen,
      my dear, you can go when you like.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His daughters rose immediately; and Miss Garth considerately followed
      their example. When an easy-tempered man does assert himself in his
      family, the rarity of the demonstration invariably has its effect; and the
      will of that easy-tempered man is Law.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What can have happened?&rdquo; whispered Norah, as they closed the
      breakfast-room door and crossed the hall.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What does papa mean by being cross with Me?&rdquo; exclaimed Magdalen, chafing
      under a sense of her own injuries.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask&mdash;what right you had to pry into your father&rsquo;s private
      affairs?&rdquo; retorted Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Right?&rdquo; repeated Magdalen. &ldquo;I have no secrets from papa&mdash;what
      business has papa to have secrets from me! I consider myself insulted.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you considered yourself properly reproved for not minding your own
      business,&rdquo; said the plain-spoken Miss Garth, &ldquo;you would be a trifle nearer
      the truth. Ah! you are like all the rest of the girls in the present day.
      Not one in a hundred of you knows which end of her&rsquo;s uppermost.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The three ladies entered the morning-room; and Magdalen acknowledged Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s reproof by banging the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Half an hour passed, and neither Mr. Vanstone nor his wife left the
      breakfast-room. The servant, ignorant of what had happened, went in to
      clear the table&mdash;found his master and mistress seated close together
      in deep consultation&mdash;and immediately went out again. Another quarter
      of an hour elapsed before the breakfast-room door was opened, and the
      private conference of the husband and wife came to an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hear mamma in the hall,&rdquo; said Norah. &ldquo;Perhaps she is coming to tell us
      something.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone entered the morning-room as her daughter spoke. The color
      was deeper on her cheeks, and the brightness of half-dried tears glistened
      in her eyes; her step was more hasty, all her movements were quicker than
      usual.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I bring news, my dears, which will surprise you,&rdquo; she said, addressing
      her daughters. &ldquo;Your father and I are going to London to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen caught her mother by the arm in speechless astonishment. Miss
      Garth dropped her work on her lap; even the sedate Norah started to her
      feet, and amazedly repeated the words, &ldquo;Going to London!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Without us?&rdquo; added Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your father and I are going alone,&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone. &ldquo;Perhaps, for as
      long as three weeks&mdash;but not longer. We are going&rdquo;&mdash;she
      hesitated&mdash;&ldquo;we are going on important family business. Don&rsquo;t hold me,
      Magdalen. This is a sudden necessity&mdash;I have a great deal to do
      to-day&mdash;many things to set in order before tomorrow. There, there, my
      love, let me go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She drew her arm away; hastily kissed her youngest daughter on the
      forehead; and at once left the room again. Even Magdalen saw that her
      mother was not to be coaxed into hearing or answering any more questions.
    </p>
    <p>
      The morning wore on, and nothing was seen of Mr. Vanstone. With the
      reckless curiosity of her age and character, Magdalen, in defiance of Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s prohibition and her sister&rsquo;s remonstrances, determined to go to
      the study and look for her father there. When she tried the door, it was
      locked on the inside. She said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s only me, papa;&rdquo; and waited for the
      answer. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m busy now, my dear,&rdquo; was the answer. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t disturb me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone was, in another way, equally inaccessible. She remained in
      her own room, with the female servants about her, immersed in endless
      preparations for the approaching departure. The servants, little used in
      that family to sudden resolutions and unexpected orders, were awkward and
      confused in obeying directions. They ran from room to room unnecessarily,
      and lost time and patience in jostling each other on the stairs. If a
      stranger had entered the house that day, he might have imagined that an
      unexpected disaster had happened in it, instead of an unexpected necessity
      for a journey to London. Nothing proceeded in its ordinary routine.
      Magdalen, who was accustomed to pass the morning at the piano, wandered
      restlessly about the staircases and passages, and in and out of doors when
      there were glimpses of fine weather. Norah, whose fondness for reading had
      passed into a family proverb, took up book after book from table and
      shelf, and laid them down again, in despair of fixing her attention. Even
      Miss Garth felt the all-pervading influence of the household
      disorganization, and sat alone by the morning-room fire, with her head
      shaking ominously, and her work laid aside.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Family affairs?&rdquo; thought Miss Garth, pondering over Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s vague
      explanatory words. &ldquo;I have lived twelve years at Combe-Raven; and these
      are the first family affairs which have got between the parents and the
      children, in all my experience. What does it mean? Change? I suppose I&rsquo;m
      getting old. I don&rsquo;t like change.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      AT ten o&rsquo;clock the next morning Norah and Magdalen stood alone in the hall
      at Combe-Raven watching the departure of the carriage which took their
      father and mother to the London train.
    </p>
    <p>
      Up to the last moment, both the sisters had hoped for some explanation of
      that mysterious &ldquo;family business&rdquo; to which Mrs. Vanstone had so briefly
      alluded on the previous day. No such explanation had been offered. Even
      the agitation of the leave-taking, under circumstances entirely new in the
      home experience of the parents and children, had not shaken the resolute
      discretion of Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone. They had gone&mdash;with the warmest
      testimonies of affection, with farewell embraces fervently reiterated
      again and again&mdash;but without dropping one word, from first to last,
      of the nature of their errand.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the grating sound of the carriage-wheels ceased suddenly at a turn in
      the road, the sisters looked one another in the face; each feeling, and
      each betraying in her own way, the dreary sense that she was openly
      excluded, for the first time, from the confidence of her parents. Norah&rsquo;s
      customary reserve strengthened into sullen silence&mdash;she sat down in
      one of the hall chairs and looked out frowningly through the open house
      door. Magdalen, as usual when her temper was ruffled, expressed her
      dissatisfaction in the plainest terms. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care who knows it&mdash;I
      think we are both of us shamefully ill-used!&rdquo; With those words, the young
      lady followed her sister&rsquo;s example by seating herself on a hall chair and
      looking aimlessly out through the open house door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Almost at the same moment Miss Garth entered the hall from the
      morning-room. Her quick observation showed her the necessity for
      interfering to some practical purpose; and her ready good sense at once
      pointed the way.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look up, both of you, if you please, and listen to me,&rdquo; said Miss Garth.
      &ldquo;If we are all three to be comfortable and happy together, now we are
      alone, we must stick to our usual habits and go on in our regular way.
      There is the state of things in plain words. Accept the situation&mdash;as
      the French say. Here am I to set you the example. I have just ordered an
      excellent dinner at the customary hour. I am going to the medicine-chest
      next, to physic the kitchen-maid&mdash;an unwholesome girl, whose
      face-ache is all stomach. In the meantime, Norah, my dear, you will find
      your work and your books, as usual, in the library. Magdalen, suppose you
      leave off tying your handkerchief into knots and use your fingers on the
      keys of the piano instead? We&rsquo;ll lunch at one, and take the dogs out
      afterward. Be as brisk and cheerful both of you as I am. Come, rouse up
      directly. If I see those gloomy faces any longer, as sure as my name&rsquo;s
      Garth, I&rsquo;ll give your mother written warning and go back to my friends by
      the mixed train at twelve forty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Concluding her address of expostulation in those terms, Miss Garth led
      Norah to the library door, pushed Magdalen into the morning-room, and went
      on her own way sternly to the regions of the medicine-chest.
    </p>
    <p>
      In this half-jesting, half-earnest manner she was accustomed to maintain a
      sort of friendly authority over Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters, after her proper
      functions as governess had necessarily come to an end. Norah, it is
      needless to say, had long since ceased to be her pupil; and Magdalen had,
      by this time, completed her education. But Miss Garth had lived too long
      and too intimately under Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s roof to be parted with for any
      purely formal considerations; and the first hint at going away which she
      had thought it her duty to drop was dismissed with such affectionate
      warmth of protest that she never repeated it again, except in jest. The
      entire management of the household was, from that time forth, left in her
      hands; and to those duties she was free to add what companionable
      assistance she could render to Norah&rsquo;s reading, and what friendly
      superintendence she could still exercise over Magdalen&rsquo;s music. Such were
      the terms on which Miss Garth was now a resident in Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s family.
    </p>
    <p>
      Toward the afternoon the weather improved. At half-past one the sun was
      shining brightly; and the ladies left the house, accompanied by the dogs,
      to set forth on their walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      They crossed the stream, and ascended by the little rocky pass to the
      hills beyond; then diverged to the left, and returned by a cross-road
      which led through the village of Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they came in sight of the first cottages, they passed a man, hanging
      about the road, who looked attentively, first at Magdalen, then at Norah.
      They merely observed that he was short, that he was dressed in black, and
      that he was a total stranger to them&mdash;and continued their homeward
      walk, without thinking more about the loitering foot-passenger whom they
      had met on their way back.
    </p>
    <p>
      After they had left the village, and had entered the road which led
      straight to the house, Magdalen surprised Miss Garth by announcing that
      the stranger in black had turned, after they had passed him, and was now
      following them. &ldquo;He keeps on Norah&rsquo;s side of the road,&rdquo; she said,
      mischievously. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not the attraction&mdash;don&rsquo;t blame <i>me</i>.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Whether the man was really following them, or not, made little difference,
      for they were now close to the house. As they passed through the
      lodge-gates, Miss Garth looked round, and saw that the stranger was
      quickening his pace, apparently with the purpose of entering into
      conversation. Seeing this, she at once directed the young ladies to go on
      to the house with the dogs, while she herself waited for events at the
      gate.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was just time to complete this discreet arrangement, before the
      stranger reached the lodge. He took off his hat to Miss Garth politely, as
      she turned round. What did he look like, on the face of him? He looked
      like a clergyman in difficulties.
    </p>
    <p>
      Taking his portrait, from top to toe, the picture of him began with a tall
      hat, broadly encircled by a mourning band of crumpled crape. Below the hat
      was a lean, long, sallow face, deeply pitted with the smallpox, and
      characterized, very remarkably, by eyes of two different colors&mdash;one
      bilious green, one bilious brown, both sharply intelligent. His hair was
      iron-gray, carefully brushed round at the temples. His cheeks and chin
      were in the bluest bloom of smooth shaving; his nose was short Roman; his
      lips long, thin, and supple, curled up at the corners with a
      mildly-humorous smile. His white cravat was high, stiff, and dingy; the
      collar, higher, stiffer, and dingier, projected its rigid points on either
      side beyond his chin. Lower down, the lithe little figure of the man was
      arrayed throughout in sober-shabby black. His frock-coat was buttoned
      tight round the waist, and left to bulge open majestically at the chest.
      His hands were covered with black cotton gloves neatly darned at the
      fingers; his umbrella, worn down at the ferule to the last quarter of an
      inch, was carefully preserved, nevertheless, in an oilskin case. The front
      view of him was the view in which he looked oldest; meeting him face to
      face, he might have been estimated at fifty or more. Walking behind him,
      his back and shoulders were almost young enough to have passed for
      five-and-thirty. His manners were distinguished by a grave serenity. When
      he opened his lips, he spoke in a rich bass voice, with an easy flow of
      language, and a strict attention to the elocutionary claims of words in
      more than one syllable. Persuasion distilled from his mildly-curling lips;
      and, shabby as he was, perennial flowers of courtesy bloomed all over him
      from head to foot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is the residence of Mr. Vanstone, I believe?&rdquo; he began, with a
      circular wave of his hand in the direction of the house. &ldquo;Have I the honor
      of addressing a member of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s family?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said the plain-spoken Miss Garth. &ldquo;You are addressing Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s governess.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The persuasive man fell back a step&mdash;admired Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s governess&mdash;advanced
      a step again&mdash;and continued the conversation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And the two young ladies,&rdquo; he went on, &ldquo;the two young ladies who were
      walking with you are doubtless Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters? I recognized the
      darker of the two, and the elder as I apprehend, by her likeness to her
      handsome mother. The younger lady&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are acquainted with Mrs. Vanstone, I suppose?&rdquo; said Miss Garth,
      interrupting the stranger&rsquo;s flow of language, which, all things
      considered, was beginning, in her opinion, to flow rather freely. The
      stranger acknowledged the interruption by one of his polite bows, and
      submerged Miss Garth in his next sentence as if nothing had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The younger lady,&rdquo; he proceeded, &ldquo;takes after her father, I presume? I
      assure you, her face struck me. Looking at it with my friendly interest in
      the family, I thought it very remarkable. I said to myself&mdash;Charming,
      Characteristic, Memorable. Not like her sister, not like her mother. No
      doubt, the image of her father?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Once more Miss Garth attempted to stem the man&rsquo;s flow of words. It was
      plain that he did not know Mr. Vanstone, even by sight&mdash;otherwise he
      would never have committed the error of supposing that Magdalen took after
      her father. Did he know Mrs. Vanstone any better? He had left Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      question on that point unanswered. In the name of wonder, who was he?
      Powers of impudence! what did he want?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may be a friend of the family, though I don&rsquo;t remember your face,&rdquo;
       said Miss Garth. &ldquo;What may your commands be, if you please? Did you come
      here to pay Mrs. Vanstone a visit?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had anticipated the pleasure of communicating with Mrs. Vanstone,&rdquo;
       answered this inveterately evasive and inveterately civil man. &ldquo;How is
      she?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Much as usual,&rdquo; said Miss Garth, feeling her resources of politeness fast
      failing her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is she at home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Out for long?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gone to London with Mr. Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The man&rsquo;s long face suddenly grew longer. His bilious brown eye looked
      disconcerted, and his bilious green eye followed its example. His manner
      became palpably anxious; and his choice of words was more carefully
      selected than ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s absence likely to extend over any very lengthened
      period?&rdquo; he inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will extend over three weeks,&rdquo; replied Miss Garth. &ldquo;I think you have
      now asked me questions enough,&rdquo; she went on, beginning to let her temper
      get the better of her at last. &ldquo;Be so good, if you please, as to mention
      your business and your name. If you have any message to leave for Mrs.
      Vanstone, I shall be writing to her by to-night&rsquo;s post, and I can take
      charge of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A thousand thanks! A most valuable suggestion. Permit me to take
      advantage of it immediately.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was not in the least affected by the severity of Miss Garth&rsquo;s looks and
      language&mdash;he was simply relieved by her proposal, and he showed it
      with the most engaging sincerity. This time his bilious green eye took the
      initiative, and set his bilious brown eye the example of recovered
      serenity. His curling lips took a new twist upward; he tucked his umbrella
      briskly under his arm; and produced from the breast of his coat a large
      old-fashioned black pocketbook. From this he took a pencil and a card&mdash;hesitated
      and considered for a moment&mdash;wrote rapidly on the card&mdash;and
      placed it, with the politest alacrity, in Miss Garth&rsquo;s hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall feel personally obliged if you will honor me by inclosing that
      card in your letter,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;There is no necessity for my troubling you
      additionally with a message. My name will be quite sufficient to recall a
      little family matter to Mrs. Vanstone, which has no doubt escaped her
      memory. Accept my best thanks. This has been a day of agreeable surprises
      to me. I have found the country hereabouts remarkably pretty; I have seen
      Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s two charming daughters; I have become acquainted with an
      honored preceptress in Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s family. I congratulate myself&mdash;I
      apologize for occupying your valuable time&mdash;I beg my renewed
      acknowledgments&mdash;I wish you good-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He raised his tall hat. His brown eye twinkled, his green eye twinkled,
      his curly lips smiled sweetly. In a moment he turned on his heel. His
      youthful back appeared to the best advantage; his active little legs took
      him away trippingly in the direction of the village. One, two, three&mdash;and
      he reached the turn in the road. Four, five, six&mdash;and he was gone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth looked down at the card in her hand, and looked up again in
      blank astonishment. The name and address of the clerical-looking stranger
      (both written in pencil) ran as follows:
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Captain Wragge. Post-office, Bristol.</i>
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      WHEN she returned to the house, Miss Garth made no attempt to conceal her
      unfavorable opinion of the stranger in black. His object was, no doubt, to
      obtain pecuniary assistance from Mrs. Vanstone. What the nature of his
      claim on her might be seemed less intelligible&mdash;unless it was the
      claim of a poor relation. Had Mrs. Vanstone ever mentioned, in the
      presence of her daughters, the name of Captain Wragge? Neither of them
      recollected to have heard it before. Had Mrs. Vanstone ever referred to
      any poor relations who were dependent on her? On the contrary she had
      mentioned of late years that she doubted having any relations at all who
      were still living. And yet Captain Wragge had plainly declared that the
      name on his card would recall &ldquo;a family matter&rdquo; to Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s memory.
      What did it mean? A false statement, on the stranger&rsquo;s part, without any
      intelligible reason for making it? Or a second mystery, following close on
      the heels of the mysterious journey to London?
    </p>
    <p>
      All the probabilities seemed to point to some hidden connection between
      the &ldquo;family affairs&rdquo; which had taken Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone so suddenly
      from home and the &ldquo;family matter&rdquo; associated with the name of Captain
      Wragge. Miss Garth&rsquo;s doubts thronged back irresistibly on her mind as she
      sealed her letter to Mrs. Vanstone, with the captain&rsquo;s card added by way
      of inclosure.
    </p>
    <p>
      By return of post the answer arrived.
    </p>
    <p>
      Always the earliest riser among the ladies of the house, Miss Garth was
      alone in the breakfast-room when the letter was brought in. Her first
      glance at its contents convinced her of the necessity of reading it
      carefully through in retirement, before any embarrassing questions could
      be put to her. Leaving a message with the servant requesting Norah to make
      the tea that morning, she went upstairs at once to the solitude and
      security of her own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s letter extended to some length. The first part of it
      referred to Captain Wragge, and entered unreservedly into all necessary
      explanations relating to the man himself and to the motive which had
      brought him to Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      It appeared from Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s statement that her mother had been twice
      married. Her mother&rsquo;s first husband had been a certain Doctor Wragge&mdash;a
      widower with young children; and one of those children was now the
      unmilitary-looking captain, whose address was &ldquo;Post-office, Bristol.&rdquo; Mrs.
      Wragge had left no family by her first husband; and had afterward married
      Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s father. Of that second marriage Mrs. Vanstone herself was
      the only issue. She had lost both her parents while she was still a young
      woman; and, in course of years, her mother&rsquo;s family connections (who were
      then her nearest surviving relatives) had been one after another removed
      by death. She was left, at the present writing, without a relation in the
      world&mdash;excepting, perhaps, certain cousins whom she had never seen,
      and of whose existence even, at the present moment, she possessed no
      positive knowledge.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under these circumstances, what family claim had Captain Wragge on Mrs.
      Vanstone?
    </p>
    <p>
      None whatever. As the son of her mother&rsquo;s first husband, by that husband&rsquo;s
      first wife, not even the widest stretch of courtesy could have included
      him at any time in the list of Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s most distant relations.
      Well knowing this (the letter proceeded to say), he had nevertheless
      persisted in forcing himself upon her as a species of family connection:
      and she had weakly sanctioned the intrusion, solely from the dread that he
      would otherwise introduce himself to Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s notice, and take
      unblushing advantage of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s generosity. Shrinking, naturally,
      from allowing her husband to be annoyed, and probably cheated as well, by
      any person who claimed, however preposterously, a family connection with
      herself, it had been her practice, for many years past, to assist the
      captain from her own purse, on the condition that he should never come
      near the house, and that he should not presume to make any application
      whatever to Mr. Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Readily admitting the imprudence of this course, Mrs. Vanstone further
      explained that she had perhaps been the more inclined to adopt it through
      having been always accustomed, in her early days, to see the captain
      living now upon one member, and now upon another, of her mother&rsquo;s family.
      Possessed of abilities which might have raised him to distinction in
      almost any career that he could have chosen, he had nevertheless, from his
      youth upward, been a disgrace to all his relatives. He had been expelled
      the militia regiment in which he once held a commission. He had tried one
      employment after another, and had discreditably failed in all. He had
      lived on his wits, in the lowest and basest meaning of the phrase. He had
      married a poor ignorant woman, who had served as a waitress at some low
      eating-house, who had unexpectedly come into a little money, and whose
      small inheritance he had mercilessly squandered to the last farthing. In
      plain terms, he was an incorrigible scoundrel; and he had now added one
      more to the list of his many misdemeanors by impudently breaking the
      conditions on which Mrs. Vanstone had hitherto assisted him. She had
      written at once to the address indicated on his card, in such terms and to
      such purpose as would prevent him, she hoped and believed, from ever
      venturing near the house again. Such were the terms in which Mrs. Vanstone
      concluded that first part of her letter which referred exclusively to
      Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      Although the statement thus presented implied a weakness in Mrs.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s character which Miss Garth, after many years of intimate
      experience, had never detected, she accepted the explanation as a matter
      of course; receiving it all the more readily inasmuch as it might, without
      impropriety, be communicated in substance to appease the irritated
      curiosity of the two young ladies. For this reason especially she perused
      the first half of the letter with an agreeable sense of relief. Far
      different was the impression produced on her when she advanced to the
      second half, and when she had read it to the end.
    </p>
    <p>
      The second part of the letter was devoted to the subject of the journey to
      London.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone began by referring to the long and intimate friendship which
      had existed between Miss Garth and herself. She now felt it due to that
      friendship to explain confidentially the motive which had induced her to
      leave home with her husband. Miss Garth had delicately refrained from
      showing it, but she must naturally have felt, and must still be feeling,
      great surprise at the mystery in which their departure had been involved;
      and she must doubtless have asked herself why Mrs. Vanstone should have
      been associated with family affairs which (in her independent position as
      to relatives) must necessarily concern Mr. Vanstone alone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Without touching on those affairs, which it was neither desirable nor
      necessary to do, Mrs. Vanstone then proceeded to say that she would at
      once set all Miss Garth&rsquo;s doubts at rest, so far as they related to
      herself, by one plain acknowledgment. Her object in accompanying her
      husband to London was to see a certain celebrated physician, and to
      consult him privately on a very delicate and anxious matter connected with
      the state of her health. In plainer terms still, this anxious matter meant
      nothing less than the possibility that she might again become a mother.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the doubt had first suggested itself she had treated it as a mere
      delusion. The long interval that had elapsed since the birth of her last
      child; the serious illness which had afflicted her after the death of that
      child in infancy; the time of life at which she had now arrived&mdash;all
      inclined her to dismiss the idea as soon as it arose in her mind. It had
      returned again and again in spite of her. She had felt the necessity of
      consulting the highest medical authority; and had shrunk, at the same
      time, from alarming her daughters by summoning a London physician to the
      house. The medical opinion, sought under the circumstances already
      mentioned, had now been obtained. Her doubt was confirmed as a certainty;
      and the result, which might be expected to take place toward the end of
      the summer, was, at her age and with her constitutional peculiarities, a
      subject for serious future anxiety, to say the least of it. The physician
      had done his best to encourage her; but she had understood the drift of
      his questions more clearly than he supposed, and she knew that he looked
      to the future with more than ordinary doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having disclosed these particulars, Mrs. Vanstone requested that they
      might be kept a secret between her correspondent and herself. She had felt
      unwilling to mention her suspicions to Miss Garth, until those suspicions
      had been confirmed&mdash;and she now recoiled, with even greater
      reluctance, from allowing her daughters to be in any way alarmed about
      her. It would be best to dismiss the subject for the present, and to wait
      hopefully till the summer came. In the meantime they would all, she
      trusted, be happily reunited on the twenty-third of the month, which Mr.
      Vanstone had fixed on as the day for their return. With this intimation,
      and with the customary messages, the letter, abruptly and confusedly, came
      to an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the first few minutes, a natural sympathy for Mrs. Vanstone was the
      only feeling of which Miss Garth was conscious after she had laid the
      letter down. Ere long, however, there rose obscurely on her mind a doubt
      which perplexed and distressed her. Was the explanation which she had just
      read really as satisfactory and as complete as it professed to be? Testing
      it plainly by facts, surely not.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the morning of her departure, Mrs. Vanstone had unquestionably left the
      house in good spirits. At her age, and in her state of health, were good
      spirits compatible with such an errand to a physician as the errand on
      which she was bent? Then, again, had that letter from New Orleans, which
      had necessitated Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s departure, no share in occasioning his
      wife&rsquo;s departure as well? Why, otherwise, had she looked up so eagerly the
      moment her daughter mentioned the postmark. Granting the avowed motive for
      her journey&mdash;did not her manner, on the morning when the letter was
      opened, and again on the morning of departure, suggest the existence of
      some other motive which her letter kept concealed?
    </p>
    <p>
      If it was so, the conclusion that followed was a very distressing one.
      Mrs. Vanstone, feeling what was due to her long friendship with Miss
      Garth, had apparently placed the fullest confidence in her, on one
      subject, by way of unsuspiciously maintaining the strictest reserve toward
      her on another. Naturally frank and straightforward in all her own
      dealings, Miss Garth shrank from plainly pursuing her doubts to this
      result: a want of loyalty toward her tried and valued friend seemed
      implied in the mere dawning of it on her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      She locked up the letter in her desk; roused herself resolutely to attend
      to the passing interests of the day; and went downstairs again to the
      breakfast-room. Amid many uncertainties, this at least was clear, Mr. and
      Mrs. Vanstone were coming back on the twenty-third of the month. Who could
      say what new revelations might not come back with them?
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      No new revelations came back with them: no anticipations associated with
      their return were realized. On the one forbidden subject of their errand
      in London, there was no moving either the master or the mistress of the
      house. Whatever their object might have been, they had to all appearance
      successfully accomplished it&mdash;for they both returned in perfect
      possession of their every-day looks and manners. Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s spirits
      had subsided to their natural quiet level; Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s imperturbable
      cheerfulness sat as easily and indolently on him as usual. This was the
      one noticeable result of their journey&mdash;this, and no more. Had the
      household revolution run its course already? Was the secret thus far
      hidden impenetrably, hidden forever?
    </p>
    <p>
      Nothing in this world is hidden forever. The gold which has lain for
      centuries unsuspected in the ground, reveals itself one day on the
      surface. Sand turns traitor, and betrays the footstep that has passed over
      it; water gives back to the tell-tale surface the body that has been
      drowned. Fire itself leaves the confession, in ashes, of the substance
      consumed in it. Hate breaks its prison-secrecy in the thoughts, through
      the doorway of the eyes; and Love finds the Judas who betrays it by a
      kiss. Look where we will, the inevitable law of revelation is one of the
      laws of nature: the lasting preservation of a secret is a miracle which
      the world has never yet seen.
    </p>
    <p>
      How was the secret now hidden in the household at Combe-Raven doomed to
      disclose itself? Through what coming event in the daily lives of the
      father, the mother, and the daughters, was the law of revelation destined
      to break the fatal way to discovery? The way opened (unseen by the
      parents, and unsuspected by the children) through the first event that
      happened after Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s return&mdash;an event which
      presented, on the surface of it, no interest of greater importance than
      the trivial social ceremony of a morning call.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three days after the master and mistress of Combe-Raven had come back, the
      female members of the family happened to be assembled together in the
      morning-room. The view from the windows looked over the flower-garden and
      shrubbery; this last being protected at its outward extremity by a fence,
      and approached from the lane beyond by a wicket-gate. During an interval
      in the conversation, the attention of the ladies was suddenly attracted to
      this gate, by the sharp sound of the iron latch falling in its socket.
      Some one had entered the shrubbery from the lane; and Magdalen at once
      placed herself at the window to catch the first sight of the visitor
      through the trees.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a few minutes, the figure of a gentleman became visible, at the
      point where the shrubbery path joined the winding garden-walk which led to
      the house. Magdalen looked at him attentively, without appearing, at
      first, to know who he was. As he came nearer, however, she started in
      astonishment; and, turning quickly to her mother and sister, proclaimed
      the gentleman in the garden to be no other than &ldquo;Mr. Francis Clare.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The visitor thus announced was the son of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s oldest associate
      and nearest neighbor.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare the elder inhabited an unpretending little cottage, situated
      just outside the shrubbery fence which marked the limit of the Combe-Raven
      grounds. Belonging to the younger branch of a family of great antiquity,
      the one inheritance of importance that he had derived from his ancestors
      was the possession of a magnificent library, which not only filled all the
      rooms in his modest little dwelling, but lined the staircases and passages
      as well. Mr. Clare&rsquo;s books represented the one important interest of Mr.
      Clare&rsquo;s life. He had been a widower for many years past, and made no
      secret of his philosophical resignation to the loss of his wife. As a
      father, he regarded his family of three sons in the light of a necessary
      domestic evil, which perpetually threatened the sanctity of his study and
      the safety of his books. When the boys went to school, Mr. Clare said
      &ldquo;good-by&rdquo; to them&mdash;and &ldquo;thank God&rdquo; to himself. As for his small
      income, and his still smaller domestic establishment, he looked at them
      both from the same satirically indifferent point of view. He called
      himself a pauper with a pedigree. He abandoned the entire direction of his
      household to the slatternly old woman who was his only servant, on the
      condition that she was never to venture near his books, with a duster in
      her hand, from one year&rsquo;s end to the other. His favorite poets were Horace
      and Pope; his chosen philosophers, Hobbes and Voltaire. He took his
      exercise and his fresh air under protest; and always walked the same
      distance to a yard, on the ugliest high-road in the neighborhood. He was
      crooked of back, and quick of temper. He could digest radishes, and sleep
      after green tea. His views of human nature were the views of Diogenes,
      tempered by Rochefoucauld; his personal habits were slovenly in the last
      degree; and his favorite boast was that he had outlived all human
      prejudices.
    </p>
    <p>
      Such was this singular man, in his more superficial aspects. What nobler
      qualities he might possess below the surface, no one had ever discovered.
      Mr. Vanstone, it is true, stoutly asserted that &ldquo;Mr. Clare&rsquo;s worst side
      was his outside&rdquo;&mdash;but in this expression of opinion he stood alone
      among his neighbors. The association between these two widely-dissimilar
      men had lasted for many years, and was almost close enough to be called a
      friendship. They had acquired a habit of meeting to smoke together on
      certain evenings in the week, in the cynic-philosopher&rsquo;s study, and of
      there disputing on every imaginable subject&mdash;Mr. Vanstone flourishing
      the stout cudgels of assertion, and Mr. Clare meeting him with the keen
      edged-tools of sophistry. They generally quarreled at night, and met on
      the neutral ground of the shrubbery to be reconciled together the next
      morning. The bond of intercourse thus curiously established between them
      was strengthened on Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s side by a hearty interest in his
      neighbor&rsquo;s three sons&mdash;an interest by which those sons benefited all
      the more importantly, seeing that one of the prejudices which their father
      had outlived was a prejudice in favor of his own children.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I look at those boys,&rdquo; the philosopher was accustomed to say, &ldquo;with a
      perfectly impartial eye; I dismiss the unimportant accident of their birth
      from all consideration; and I find them below the average in every
      respect. The only excuse which a poor gentleman has for presuming to exist
      in the nineteenth century, is the excuse of extraordinary ability. My boys
      have been addle-headed from infancy. If I had any capital to give them, I
      should make Frank a butcher, Cecil a baker, and Arthur a grocer&mdash;those
      being the only human vocations I know of which are certain to be always in
      request. As it is, I have no money to help them with; and they have no
      brains to help themselves. They appear to me to be three human
      superfluities in dirty jackets and noisy boots; and, unless they clear
      themselves off the community by running away, I don&rsquo;t myself profess to
      see what is to be done with them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Fortunately for the boys, Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s views were still fast imprisoned
      in the ordinary prejudices. At his intercession, and through his
      influence, Frank, Cecil, and Arthur were received on the foundation of a
      well-reputed grammar-school. In holiday-time they were mercifully allowed
      the run of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s paddock; and were humanized and refined by
      association, indoors, with Mrs. Vanstone and her daughters. On these
      occasions, Mr. Clare used sometimes to walk across from his cottage (in
      his dressing-gown and slippers), and look at the boys disparagingly,
      through the window or over the fence, as if they were three wild animals
      whom his neighbor was attempting to tame. &ldquo;You and your wife are excellent
      people,&rdquo; he used to say to Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;I respect your honest prejudices
      in favor of those boys of mine with all my heart. But you are <i>so</i>
      wrong about them&mdash;you are indeed! I wish to give no offense; I speak
      quite impartially&mdash;but mark my words, Vanstone: they&rsquo;ll all three
      turn out ill, in spite of everything you can do to prevent it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In later years, when Frank had reached the age of seventeen, the same
      curious shifting of the relative positions of parent and friend between
      the two neighbors was exemplified more absurdly than ever. A civil
      engineer in the north of England, who owed certain obligations to Mr.
      Vanstone, expressed his willingness to take Frank under superintendence,
      on terms of the most favorable kind. When this proposal was received, Mr.
      Clare, as usual, first shifted his own character as Frank&rsquo;s father on Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s shoulders&mdash;and then moderated his neighbor&rsquo;s parental
      enthusiasm from the point of view of an impartial spectator.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the finest chance for Frank that could possibly have happened,&rdquo;
       cried Mr. Vanstone, in a glow of fatherly enthusiasm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My good fellow, he won&rsquo;t take it,&rdquo; retorted Mr. Clare, with the icy
      composure of a disinterested friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But he <i>shall</i> take it,&rdquo; persisted Mr. Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Say he shall have a mathematical head,&rdquo; rejoined Mr. Clare; &ldquo;say he shall
      possess industry, ambition, and firmness of purpose. Pooh! pooh! you don&rsquo;t
      look at him with my impartial eyes. I say, No mathematics, no industry, no
      ambition, no firmness of purpose. Frank is a compound of negatives&mdash;and
      there they are.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hang your negatives!&rdquo; shouted Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care a rush for
      negatives, or affirmatives either. Frank shall have this splendid chance;
      and I&rsquo;ll lay you any wager you like he makes the best of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not rich enough to lay wagers, usually,&rdquo; replied Mr. Clare; &ldquo;but I
      think I have got a guinea about the house somewhere; and I&rsquo;ll lay you that
      guinea Frank comes back on our hands like a bad shilling.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Done!&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;No: stop a minute! I won&rsquo;t do the lad&rsquo;s
      character the injustice of backing it at even money. I&rsquo;ll lay you five to
      one Frank turns up trumps in this business! You ought to be ashamed of
      yourself for talking of him as you do. What sort of hocus-pocus you bring
      it about by, I don&rsquo;t pretend to know; but you always end in making me take
      his part, as if I was his father instead of you. Ah yes! give you time,
      and you&rsquo;ll defend yourself. I won&rsquo;t give you time; I won&rsquo;t have any of
      your special pleading. Black&rsquo;s white according to you. I don&rsquo;t care: it&rsquo;s
      black for all that. You may talk nineteen to the dozen&mdash;I shall write
      to my friend and say Yes, in Frank&rsquo;s interests, by to-day&rsquo;s post.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Such were the circumstances under which Mr. Francis Clare departed for the
      north of England, at the age of seventeen, to start in life as a civil
      engineer.
    </p>
    <p>
      From time to time, Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s friend communicated with him on the
      subject of the new pupil. Frank was praised, as a quiet, gentleman-like,
      interesting lad&mdash;but he was also reported to be rather slow at
      acquiring the rudiments of engineering science. Other letters, later in
      date, described him as a little too ready to despond about himself; as
      having been sent away, on that account, to some new railway works, to see
      if change of scene would rouse him; and as having benefited in every
      respect by the experiment&mdash;except perhaps in regard to his
      professional studies, which still advanced but slowly. Subsequent
      communications announced his departure, under care of a trustworthy
      foreman, for some public works in Belgium; touched on the general benefit
      he appeared to derive from this new change; praised his excellent manners
      and address, which were of great assistance in facilitating business
      communications with the foreigners&mdash;and passed over in ominous
      silence the main question of his actual progress in the acquirement of
      knowledge. These reports, and many others which resembled them, were all
      conscientiously presented by Frank&rsquo;s friend to the attention of Frank&rsquo;s
      father. On each occasion, Mr. Clare exulted over Mr. Vanstone, and Mr.
      Vanstone quarreled with Mr. Clare. &ldquo;One of these days you&rsquo;ll wish you
      hadn&rsquo;t laid that wager,&rdquo; said the cynic philosopher. &ldquo;One of these days I
      shall have the blessed satisfaction of pocketing your guinea,&rdquo; cried the
      sanguine friend. Two years had then passed since Frank&rsquo;s departure. In one
      year more results asserted themselves, and settled the question.
    </p>
    <p>
      Two days after Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s return from London, he was called away from
      the breakfast-table before he had found time enough to look over his
      letters, delivered by the morning&rsquo;s post. Thrusting them into one of the
      pockets of his shooting-jacket, he took the letters out again, at one
      grasp, to read them when occasion served, later in the day. The grasp
      included the whole correspondence, with one exception&mdash;that exception
      being a final report from the civil engineer, which notified the
      termination of the connection between his pupil and himself, and the
      immediate return of Frank to his father&rsquo;s house.
    </p>
    <p>
      While this important announcement lay unsuspected in Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      pocket, the object of it was traveling home, as fast as railways could
      take him. At half-past ten at night, while Mr. Clare was sitting in
      studious solitude over his books and his green tea, with his favorite
      black cat to keep him company, he heard footsteps in the passage&mdash;the
      door opened&mdash;and Frank stood before him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ordinary men would have been astonished. But the philosopher&rsquo;s composure
      was not to be shaken by any such trifle as the unexpected return of his
      eldest son. He could not have looked up more calmly from his learned
      volume if Frank had been absent for three minutes instead of three years.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Exactly what I predicted,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t interrupt me by making
      explanations; and don&rsquo;t frighten the cat. If there is anything to eat in
      the kitchen, get it and go to bed. You can walk over to Combe-Raven
      tomorrow and give this message from me to Mr. Vanstone: &lsquo;Father&rsquo;s
      compliments, sir, and I have come back upon your hands like a bad
      shilling, as he always said I should. He keeps his own guinea, and takes
      your five; and he hopes you&rsquo;ll mind what he says to you another time.&rsquo;
      That is the message. Shut the door after you. Good-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Under these unfavorable auspices, Mr. Francis Clare made his appearance
      the next morning in the grounds at Combe-Raven; and, something doubtful of
      the reception that might await him, slowly approached the precincts of the
      house.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was not wonderful that Magdalen should have failed to recognize him
      when he first appeared in view. He had gone away a backward lad of
      seventeen; he returned a young man of twenty. His slim figure had now
      acquired strength and grace, and had increased in stature to the medium
      height. The small regular features, which he was supposed to have
      inherited from his mother, were rounded and filled out, without having
      lost their remarkable delicacy of form. His beard was still in its
      infancy; and nascent lines of whisker traced their modest way sparely down
      his cheeks. His gentle, wandering brown eyes would have looked to better
      advantage in a woman&rsquo;s face&mdash;they wanted spirit and firmness to fit
      them for the face of a man. His hands had the same wandering habit as his
      eyes; they were constantly changing from one position to another,
      constantly twisting and turning any little stray thing they could pick up.
      He was undeniably handsome, graceful, well-bred&mdash;but no close
      observer could look at him without suspecting that the stout old family
      stock had begun to wear out in the later generations, and that Mr. Francis
      Clare had more in him of the shadow of his ancestors than of the
      substance.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the astonishment caused by his appearance had partially subsided, a
      search was instituted for the missing report. It was found in the remotest
      recesses of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s capacious pocket, and was read by that
      gentleman on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      The plain facts, as stated by the engineer, were briefly these: Frank was
      not possessed of the necessary abilities to fit him for his new calling;
      and it was useless to waste time by keeping him any longer in an
      employment for which he had no vocation. This, after three years&rsquo; trial,
      being the conviction on both sides, the master had thought it the most
      straightforward course for the pupil to go home and candidly place results
      before his father and his friends. In some other pursuit, for which he was
      more fit, and in which he could feel an interest, he would no doubt
      display the industry and perseverance which he had been too much
      discouraged to practice in the profession that he had now abandoned.
      Personally, he was liked by all who knew him; and his future prosperity
      was heartily desired by the many friends whom he had made in the North.
      Such was the substance of the report, and so it came to an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      Many men would have thought the engineer&rsquo;s statement rather too carefully
      worded; and, suspecting him of trying to make the best of a bad case,
      would have entertained serious doubts on the subject of Frank&rsquo;s future.
      Mr. Vanstone was too easy-tempered and sanguine&mdash;and too anxious, as
      well, not to yield his old antagonist an inch more ground than he could
      help&mdash;to look at the letter from any such unfavorable point of view.
      Was it Frank&rsquo;s fault if he had not got the stuff in him that engineers
      were made of? Did no other young men ever begin life with a false start?
      Plenty began in that way, and got over it, and did wonders afterward. With
      these commentaries on the letter, the kind-hearted gentleman patted Frank
      on the shoulder. &ldquo;Cheer up, my lad!&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;We will be even
      with your father one of these days, though he <i>has</i> won the wager
      this time!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The example thus set by the master of the house was followed at once by
      the family&mdash;with the solitary exception of Norah, whose incurable
      formality and reserve expressed themselves, not too graciously, in her
      distant manner toward the visitor. The rest, led by Magdalen (who had been
      Frank&rsquo;s favorite playfellow in past times) glided back into their old easy
      habits with him without an effort. He was &ldquo;Frank&rdquo; with all of them but
      Norah, who persisted in addressing him as &ldquo;Mr. Clare.&rdquo; Even the account he
      was now encouraged to give of the reception accorded to him by his father,
      on the previous night, failed to disturb Norah&rsquo;s gravity. She sat with her
      dark, handsome face steadily averted, her eyes cast down, and the rich
      color in her cheeks warmer and deeper than usual. All the rest, Miss Garth
      included, found old Mr. Clare&rsquo;s speech of welcome to his son quite
      irresistible. The noise and merriment were at their height when the
      servant came in, and struck the whole party dumb by the announcement of
      visitors in the drawing-room. &ldquo;Mr. Marrable, Mrs. Marrable, and Miss
      Marrable; Evergreen Lodge, Clifton.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah rose as readily as if the new arrivals had been a relief to her
      mind. Mrs. Vanstone was the next to leave her chair. These two went away
      first, to receive the visitors. Magdalen, who preferred the society of her
      father and Frank, pleaded hard to be left behind; but Miss Garth, after
      granting five minutes&rsquo; grace, took her into custody and marched her out of
      the room. Frank rose to take his leave.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no,&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone, detaining him. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go. These people won&rsquo;t
      stop long. Mr. Marrable&rsquo;s a merchant at Bristol. I&rsquo;ve met him once or
      twice, when the girls forced me to take them to parties at Clifton. Mere
      acquaintances, nothing more. Come and smoke a cigar in the greenhouse.
      Hang all visitors&mdash;they worry one&rsquo;s life out. I&rsquo;ll appear at the last
      moment with an apology; and you shall follow me at a safe distance, and be
      a proof that I was really engaged.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Proposing this ingenious stratagem in a confidential whisper, Mr. Vanstone
      took Frank&rsquo;s arm and led him round the house by the back way. The first
      ten minutes of seclusion in the conservatory passed without events of any
      kind. At the end of that time, a flying figure in bright garments flashed
      upon the two gentlemen through the glass&mdash;the door was flung open&mdash;flower-pots
      fell in homage to passing petticoats&mdash;and Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s youngest
      daughter ran up to him at headlong speed, with every external appearance
      of having suddenly taken leave of her senses.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa! the dream of my whole life is realized,&rdquo; she said, as soon as she
      could speak. &ldquo;I shall fly through the roof of the greenhouse if somebody
      doesn&rsquo;t hold me down. The Marrables have come here with an invitation.
      Guess, you darling&mdash;guess what they&rsquo;re going to give at Evergreen
      Lodge!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A ball!&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone, without a moment&rsquo;s hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Private Theatricals!!!&rdquo; cried Magdalen, her clear young voice ringing
      through the conservatory like a bell; her loose sleeves falling back and
      showing her round white arms to the dimpled elbows, as she clapped her
      hands ecstatically in the air. &ldquo;&lsquo;The Rivals&rsquo; is the play, papa&mdash;&lsquo;The
      Rivals,&rsquo; by the famous what&rsquo;s-his-name&mdash;and they want ME to act! The
      one thing in the whole universe that I long to do most. It all depends on
      you. Mamma shakes her head; and Miss Garth looks daggers; and Norah&rsquo;s as
      sulky as usual&mdash;but if you say Yes, they must all three give way and
      let me do as I like. Say Yes,&rdquo; she pleaded, nestling softly up to her
      father, and pressing her lips with a fond gentleness to his ear, as she
      whispered the next words. &ldquo;Say Yes, and I&rsquo;ll be a good girl for the rest
      of my life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A good girl?&rdquo; repeated Mr. Vanstone&mdash;&ldquo;a mad girl, I think you must
      mean. Hang these people and their theatricals! I shall have to go indoors
      and see about this matter. You needn&rsquo;t throw away your cigar, Frank.
      You&rsquo;re well out of the business, and you can stop here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, he can&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s in the business, too.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Francis Clare had hitherto remained modestly in the background. He now
      came forward with a face expressive of speechless amazement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; continued Magdalen, answering his blank look of inquiry with
      perfect composure. &ldquo;You are to act. Miss Marrable and I have a turn for
      business, and we settled it all in five minutes. There are two parts in
      the play left to be filled. One is Lucy, the waiting-maid; which is the
      character I have undertaken&mdash;with papa&rsquo;s permission,&rdquo; she added,
      slyly pinching her father&rsquo;s arm; &ldquo;and he won&rsquo;t say No, will he? First,
      because he&rsquo;s a darling; secondly, because I love him, and he loves me;
      thirdly, because there is never any difference of opinion between us (is
      there?); fourthly, because I give him a kiss, which naturally stops his
      mouth and settles the whole question. Dear me, I&rsquo;m wandering. Where was I
      just now? Oh yes! explaining myself to Frank&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; began Frank, attempting, at this point, to enter his
      protest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The second character in the play,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen, without taking the
      smallest notice of the protest, &ldquo;is Falkland&mdash;a jealous lover, with a
      fine flow of language. Miss Marrable and I discussed Falkland privately on
      the window-seat while the rest were talking. She is a delightful girl&mdash;so
      impulsive, so sensible, so entirely unaffected. She confided in me. She
      said: &lsquo;One of our miseries is that we can&rsquo;t find a gentleman who will
      grapple with the hideous difficulties of Falkland.&rsquo; Of course I soothed
      her. Of course I said: &lsquo;I&rsquo;ve got the gentleman, and he shall grapple
      immediately.&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;Oh heavens! who is he?&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;Mr. Francis Clare.&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;And
      where is he?&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;In the house at this moment.&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;Will you be so
      very charming, Miss Vanstone, as to fetch him?&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;I&rsquo;ll fetch him,
      Miss Marrable, with the greatest pleasure.&rsquo; I left the window-seat&mdash;I
      rushed into the morning-room&mdash;I smelled cigars&mdash;I followed the
      smell&mdash;and here I am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a compliment, I know, to be asked to act,&rdquo; said Frank, in great
      embarrassment. &ldquo;But I hope you and Miss Marrable will excuse me&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not. Miss Marrable and I are both remarkable for the firmness
      of our characters. When we say Mr. So-and-So is positively to act the part
      of Falkland, we positively mean it. Come in and be introduced.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I never tried to act. I don&rsquo;t know how.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not of the slightest consequence. If you don&rsquo;t know how, come to me and
      I&rsquo;ll teach you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You!&rdquo; exclaimed Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;What do you know about it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray, papa, be serious! I have the strongest internal conviction that I
      could act every character in the play&mdash;Falkland included. Don&rsquo;t let
      me have to speak a second time, Frank. Come and be introduced.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She took her father&rsquo;s arm, and moved on with him to the door of the
      greenhouse. At the steps, she turned and looked round to see if Frank was
      following her. It was only the action of a moment; but in that moment her
      natural firmness of will rallied all its resources&mdash;strengthened
      itself with the influence of her beauty &mdash;commanded&mdash;and
      conquered. She looked lovely: the flush was tenderly bright in her cheeks;
      the radiant pleasure shone and sparkled in her eyes; the position of her
      figure, turned suddenly from the waist upward, disclosed its delicate
      strength, its supple firmness, its seductive, serpentine grace. &ldquo;Come!&rdquo;
       she said, with a coquettish beckoning action of her head. &ldquo;Come, Frank!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Few men of forty would have resisted her at that moment. Frank was twenty
      last birthday. In other words, he threw aside his cigar, and followed her
      out of the greenhouse.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he turned and closed the door&mdash;in the instant when he lost sight
      of her&mdash;his disinclination to be associated with the private
      theatricals revived. At the foot of the house-steps he stopped again;
      plucked a twig from a plant near him; broke it in his hand; and looked
      about him uneasily, on this side and on that. The path to the left led
      back to his father&rsquo;s cottage&mdash;the way of escape lay open. Why not
      take it?
    </p>
    <p>
      While he still hesitated, Mr. Vanstone and his daughter reached the top of
      the steps. Once more, Magdalen looked round&mdash;looked with her
      resistless beauty, with her all-conquering smile. She beckoned again; and
      again he followed her&mdash;up the steps, and over the threshold. The door
      closed on them.
    </p>
    <p>
      So, with a trifling gesture of invitation on one side, with a trifling act
      of compliance on the other: so&mdash;with no knowledge in his mind, with
      no thought in hers, of the secret still hidden under the journey to London&mdash;they
      took the way which led to that secret&rsquo;s discovery, through many a darker
      winding that was yet to come.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER V.
    </h3>
    <p>
      MR. VANSTONE&rsquo;S inquiries into the proposed theatrical entertainment at
      Evergreen Lodge were answered by a narrative of dramatic disasters; of
      which Miss Marrable impersonated the innocent cause, and in which her
      father and mother played the parts of chief victims.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Marrable was that hardest of all born tyrants&mdash;an only child.
      She had never granted a constitutional privilege to her oppressed father
      and mother since the time when she cut her first tooth. Her seventeenth
      birthday was now near at hand; she had decided on celebrating it by acting
      a play; had issued her orders accordingly; and had been obeyed by her
      docile parents as implicitly as usual. Mrs. Marrable gave up the
      drawing-room to be laid waste for a stage and a theater. Mr. Marrable
      secured the services of a respectable professional person to drill the
      young ladies and gentlemen, and to accept all the other responsibilities
      incidental to creating a dramatic world out of a domestic chaos. Having
      further accustomed themselves to the breaking of furniture and the
      staining of walls&mdash;to thumping, tumbling, hammering, and screaming;
      to doors always banging, and to footsteps perpetually running up and down
      stairs&mdash;the nominal master and mistress of the house fondly believed
      that their chief troubles were over. Innocent and fatal delusion! It is
      one thing in private society to set up the stage and choose the play&mdash;it
      is another thing altogether to find the actors. Hitherto, only the small
      preliminary annoyances proper to the occasion had shown themselves at
      Evergreen Lodge. The sound and serious troubles were all to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Rivals&rdquo; having been chosen as the play, Miss Marrable, as a matter of
      course, appropriated to herself the part of &ldquo;Lydia Languish.&rdquo; One of her
      favored swains next secured &ldquo;Captain Absolute,&rdquo; and another laid violent
      hands on &ldquo;Sir Lucius O&rsquo;Trigger.&rdquo; These two were followed by an
      accommodating spinster relative, who accepted the heavy dramatic responsibility
      of &ldquo;Mrs. Malaprop&rdquo;&mdash;and there the theatrical proceedings came to a
      pause. Nine more speaking characters were left to be fitted with
      representatives; and with that unavoidable necessity the serious troubles
      began.
    </p>
    <p>
      All the friends of the family suddenly became unreliable people, for the
      first time in their lives. After encouraging the idea of the play, they
      declined the personal sacrifice of acting in it&mdash;or, they accepted
      characters, and then broke down in the effort to study them&mdash;or they
      volunteered to take the parts which they knew were already engaged, and
      declined the parts which were waiting to be acted&mdash;or they were
      afflicted with weak constitutions, and mischievously fell ill when they
      were wanted at rehearsal&mdash;or they had Puritan relatives in the
      background, and, after slipping into their parts cheerfully at the week&rsquo;s
      beginning, oozed out of them penitently, under serious family pressure, at
      the week&rsquo;s end. Meanwhile, the carpenters hammered and the scenes rose.
      Miss Marrable, whose temperament was sensitive, became hysterical under
      the strain of perpetual anxiety; the family doctor declined to answer for
      the nervous consequences if something was not done. Renewed efforts were
      made in every direction. Actors and actresses were sought with a desperate
      disregard of all considerations of personal fitness. Necessity, which
      knows no law, either in the drama or out of it, accepted a lad of eighteen
      as the representative of &ldquo;Sir Anthony Absolute&rdquo;; the stage-manager
      undertaking to supply the necessary wrinkles from the illimitable
      resources of theatrical art. A lady whose age was unknown, and whose
      personal appearance was stout&mdash;but whose heart was in the right place&mdash;volunteered
      to act the part of the sentimental &ldquo;Julia,&rdquo; and brought with her the
      dramatic qualification of habitually wearing a wig in private life. Thanks
      to these vigorous measures, the play was at last supplied with
      representatives&mdash;always excepting the two unmanageable characters of
      &ldquo;Lucy&rdquo; the waiting-maid, and &ldquo;Falkland,&rdquo; Julia&rsquo;s jealous lover. Gentlemen
      came; saw Julia at rehearsal; observed her stoutness and her wig; omitted
      to notice that her heart was in the right place; quailed at the prospect,
      apologized, and retired. Ladies read the part of &ldquo;Lucy&rdquo;; remarked that she
      appeared to great advantage in the first half of the play, and faded out
      of it altogether in the latter half; objected to pass from the notice of
      the audience in that manner, when all the rest had a chance of
      distinguishing themselves to the end; shut up the book, apologized, and
      retired. In eight days more the night of performance would arrive; a
      phalanx of social martyrs two hundred strong had been convened to witness
      it; three full rehearsals were absolutely necessary; and two characters in
      the play were not filled yet. With this lamentable story, and with the
      humblest apologies for presuming on a slight acquaintance, the Marrables
      appeared at Combe-Raven, to appeal to the young ladies for a &ldquo;Lucy,&rdquo; and
      to the universe for a &ldquo;Falkland,&rdquo; with the mendicant pertinacity of a
      family in despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      This statement of circumstances&mdash;addressed to an audience which
      included a father of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s disposition, and a daughter of
      Magdalen&rsquo;s temperament&mdash;produced the result which might have been
      anticipated from the first.
    </p>
    <p>
      Either misinterpreting, or disregarding, the ominous silence preserved by
      his wife and Miss Garth, Mr. Vanstone not only gave Magdalen permission to
      assist the forlorn dramatic company, but accepted an invitation to witness
      the performance for Norah and himself. Mrs. Vanstone declined accompanying
      them on account of her health; and Miss Garth only engaged to make one
      among the audience conditionally on not being wanted at home. The &ldquo;parts&rdquo;
       of &ldquo;Lucy&rdquo; and &ldquo;Falkland&rdquo; (which the distressed family carried about with
      them everywhere, like incidental maladies) were handed to their
      representatives on the spot. Frank&rsquo;s faint remonstrances were rejected
      without a hearing; the days and hours of rehearsal were carefully noted
      down on the covers of the parts; and the Marrables took their leave, with
      a perfect explosion of thanks&mdash;father, mother, and daughter sowing
      their expressions of gratitude broadcast, from the drawing-room door to
      the garden-gates.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as the carriage had driven away, Magdalen presented herself to the
      general observation under an entirely new aspect.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If any more visitors call to-day,&rdquo; she said, with the profoundest gravity
      of look and manner, &ldquo;I am not at home. This is a far more serious matter
      than any of you suppose. Go somewhere by yourself, Frank, and read over
      your part, and don&rsquo;t let your attention wander if you can possibly help
      it. I shall not be accessible before the evening. If you will come here&mdash;with
      papa&rsquo;s permission&mdash;after tea, my views on the subject of Falkland
      will be at your disposal. Thomas! whatever else the gardener does, he is
      not to make any floricultural noises under my window. For the rest of the
      afternoon I shall be immersed in study&mdash;and the quieter the house is,
      the more obliged I shall feel to everybody.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before Miss Garth&rsquo;s battery of reproof could open fire, before the first
      outburst of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s hearty laughter could escape his lips, she
      bowed to them with imperturbable gravity; ascended the house-steps, for
      the first time in her life, at a walk instead of a run, and retired then
      and there to the bedroom regions. Frank&rsquo;s helpless astonishment at her
      disappearance added a new element of absurdity to the scene. He stood
      first on one leg and then on the other; rolling and unrolling his part,
      and looking piteously in the faces of the friends about him. &ldquo;I know I
      can&rsquo;t do it,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;May I come in after tea, and hear Magdalen&rsquo;s
      views? Thank you&mdash;I&rsquo;ll look in about eight. Don&rsquo;t tell my father
      about this acting, please; I should never hear the last of it.&rdquo; Those were
      the only words he had spirit enough to utter. He drifted away aimlessly in
      the direction of the shrubbery, with the part hanging open in his hand&mdash;the
      most incapable of Falklands, and the most helpless of mankind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Frank&rsquo;s departure left the family by themselves, and was the signal
      accordingly for an attack on Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s inveterate carelessness in the
      exercise of his paternal authority.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What could you possibly be thinking of, Andrew, when you gave your
      consent?&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone. &ldquo;Surely my silence was a sufficient warning
      to you to say No?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A mistake, Mr. Vanstone,&rdquo; chimed in Miss Garth. &ldquo;Made with the best
      intentions&mdash;but a mistake for all that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It may be a mistake,&rdquo; said Norah, taking her father&rsquo;s part, as usual.
      &ldquo;But I really don&rsquo;t see how papa, or any one else, could have declined,
      under the circumstances.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite right, my dear,&rdquo; observed Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;The circumstances, as you
      say, were dead against me. Here were these unfortunate people in a scrape
      on one side; and Magdalen, on the other, mad to act. I couldn&rsquo;t say I had
      methodistical objections&mdash;I&rsquo;ve nothing methodistical about me. What
      other excuse could I make? The Marrables are respectable people, and keep
      the best company in Clifton. What harm can she get in their house? If you
      come to prudence and that sort of thing&mdash;why shouldn&rsquo;t Magdalen do
      what Miss Marrable does? There! there! let the poor things act, and amuse
      themselves. We were their age once&mdash;and it&rsquo;s no use making a fuss&mdash;and
      that&rsquo;s all I&rsquo;ve got to say about it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that characteristic defense of his own conduct, Mr. Vanstone
      sauntered back to the greenhouse to smoke another cigar.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t say so to papa,&rdquo; said Norah, taking her mother&rsquo;s arm on the way
      back to the house, &ldquo;but the bad result of the acting, in my opinion, will
      be the familiarity it is sure to encourage between Magdalen and Francis
      Clare.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are prejudiced against Frank, my love,&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah&rsquo;s soft, secret, hazel eyes sank to the ground; she said no more. Her
      opinions were unchangeable&mdash;but she never disputed with anybody. She
      had the great failing of a reserved nature&mdash;the failing of obstinacy;
      and the great merit&mdash;the merit of silence. &ldquo;What is your head running
      on now?&rdquo; thought Miss Garth, casting a sharp look at Norah&rsquo;s dark,
      downcast face. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re one of the impenetrable sort. Give me Magdalen,
      with all her perversities; I can see daylight through her. You&rsquo;re as dark
      as night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The hours of the afternoon passed away, and still Magdalen remained shut
      up in her own room. No restless footsteps pattered on the stairs; no
      nimble tongue was heard chattering here, there, and everywhere, from the
      garret to the kitchen&mdash;the house seemed hardly like itself, with the
      one ever-disturbing element in the family serenity suddenly withdrawn from
      it. Anxious to witness with her own eyes the reality of a transformation
      in which past experience still inclined her to disbelieve, Miss Garth
      ascended to Magdalen&rsquo;s room, knocked twice at the door, received no
      answer, opened it and looked in.
    </p>
    <p>
      There sat Magdalen, in an arm-chair before the long looking-glass, with
      all her hair let down over her shoulders; absorbed in the study of her
      part and comfortably arrayed in her morning wrapper, until it was time to
      dress for dinner. And there behind her sat the lady&rsquo;s-maid, slowly combing
      out the long heavy locks of her young mistress&rsquo;s hair, with the sleepy
      resignation of a woman who had been engaged in that employment for some
      hours past. The sun was shining; and the green shutters outside the window
      were closed. The dim light fell tenderly on the two quiet seated figures;
      on the little white bed, with the knots of rose-colored ribbon which
      looped up its curtains, and the bright dress for dinner laid ready across
      it; on the gayly painted bath, with its pure lining of white enamel; on
      the toilet-table with its sparkling trinkets, its crystal bottles, its
      silver bell with Cupid for a handle, its litter of little luxuries that
      adorn the shrine of a woman&rsquo;s bed-chamber. The luxurious tranquillity of
      the scene; the cool fragrance of flowers and perfumes in the atmosphere;
      the rapt attitude of Magdalen, absorbed over her reading; the monotonous
      regularity of movement in the maid&rsquo;s hand and arm, as she drew the comb
      smoothly through and through her mistress&rsquo;s hair&mdash;all conveyed the
      same soothing impression of drowsy, delicious quiet. On one side of the
      door were the broad daylight and the familiar realities of life. On the
      other was the dream-land of Elysian serenity&mdash;the sanctuary of
      unruffled repose.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth paused on the threshold, and looked into the room in silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s curious fancy for having her hair combed at all times and
      seasons was among the peculiarities of her character which were notorious
      to everybody in the house. It was one of her father&rsquo;s favorite jokes that
      she reminded him, on such occasions, of a cat having her back stroked, and
      that he always expected, if the combing were only continued long enough,
      to hear her <i>purr</i>. Extravagant as it may seem, the comparison was
      not altogether inappropriate. The girl&rsquo;s fervid temperament intensified
      the essentially feminine pleasure that most women feel in the passage of
      the comb through their hair, to a luxury of sensation which absorbed her
      in enjoyment, so serenely self-demonstrative, so drowsily deep that it did
      irresistibly suggest a pet cat&rsquo;s enjoyment under a caressing hand.
      Intimately as Miss Garth was acquainted with this peculiarity in her
      pupil, she now saw it asserting itself for the first time, in association
      with mental exertion of any kind on Magdalen&rsquo;s part. Feeling, therefore,
      some curiosity to know how long the combing and the studying had gone on
      together, she ventured on putting the question, first to the mistress; and
      (receiving no answer in that quarter) secondly to the maid.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All the afternoon, miss, off and on,&rdquo; was the weary answer. &ldquo;Miss
      Magdalen says it soothes her feelings and clears her mind.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Knowing by experience that interference would be hopeless, under these
      circumstances, Miss Garth turned sharply and left the room. She smiled
      when she was outside on the landing. The female mind does occasionally&mdash;though
      not often&mdash;project itself into the future. Miss Garth was
      prophetically pitying Magdalen&rsquo;s unfortunate husband.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dinner-time presented the fair student to the family eye in the same
      mentally absorbed aspect. On all ordinary occasions Magdalen&rsquo;s appetite
      would have terrified those feeble sentimentalists who affect to ignore the
      all-important influence which female feeding exerts in the production of
      female beauty. On this occasion she refused one dish after another with a
      resolution which implied the rarest of all modern martyrdoms&mdash;gastric
      martyrdom. &ldquo;I have conceived the part of Lucy,&rdquo; she observed, with the
      demurest gravity. &ldquo;The next difficulty is to make Frank conceive the part
      of Falkland. I see nothing to laugh at&mdash;you would all be serious
      enough if you had my responsibilities. No, papa&mdash;no wine to-day,
      thank you. I must keep my intelligence clear. Water, Thomas&mdash;and a
      little more jelly, I think, before you take it away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When Frank presented himself in the evening, ignorant of the first
      elements of his part, she took him in hand, as a middle-aged
      schoolmistress might have taken in hand a backward little boy. The few
      attempts he made to vary the sternly practical nature of the evening&rsquo;s
      occupation by slipping in compliments sidelong she put away from her with
      the contemptuous self-possession of a woman of twice her age. She
      literally forced him into his part. Her father fell asleep in his chair.
      Mrs. Vanstone and Miss Garth lost their interest in the proceedings,
      retired to the further end of the room, and spoke together in whispers. It
      grew later and later; and still Magdalen never flinched from her task&mdash;still,
      with equal perseverance, Norah, who had been on the watch all through the
      evening, kept on the watch to the end. The distrust darkened and darkened
      on her face as she looked at her sister and Frank; as she saw how close
      they sat together, devoted to the same interest and working to the same
      end. The clock on the mantel-piece pointed to half-past eleven before Lucy
      the resolute permitted Falkland the helpless to shut up his task-book for
      the night. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s wonderfully clever, isn&rsquo;t she?&rdquo; said Frank, taking leave
      of Mr. Vanstone at the hall door. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m to come to-morrow, and hear more of
      her views&mdash;if you have no objection. I shall never do it; don&rsquo;t tell
      her I said so. As fast as she teaches me one speech, the other goes out of
      my head. Discouraging, isn&rsquo;t it? Goodnight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next day but one was the day of the first full rehearsal. On the
      previous evening Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s spirits had been sadly depressed. At a
      private interview with Miss Garth she had referred again, of her own
      accord, to the subject of her letter from London&mdash;had spoken
      self-reproachfully of her weakness in admitting Captain Wragge&rsquo;s impudent
      claim to a family connection with her&mdash;and had then reverted to the
      state of her health and to the doubtful prospect that awaited her in the
      coming summer in a tone of despondency which it was very distressing to
      hear. Anxious to cheer her spirits, Miss Garth had changed the
      conversation as soon as possible&mdash;had referred to the approaching
      theatrical performance&mdash;and had relieved Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s mind of all
      anxiety in that direction, by announcing her intention of accompanying
      Magdalen to each rehearsal, and of not losing sight of her until she was
      safely back again in her father&rsquo;s house. Accordingly, when Frank presented
      himself at Combe-Raven on the eventful morning, there stood Miss Garth,
      prepared&mdash;in the interpolated character of Argus&mdash;to accompany
      Lucy and Falkland to the scene of trial. The railway conveyed the three,
      in excellent time, to Evergreen Lodge; and at one o&rsquo;clock the rehearsal
      began.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VI.
    </h3>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I HOPE Miss Vanstone knows her part?&rdquo; whispered Mrs. Marrable, anxiously
      addressing herself to Miss Garth, in a corner of the theater.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If airs and graces make an actress, ma&rsquo;am, Magdalen&rsquo;s performance will
      astonish us all.&rdquo; With that reply, Miss Garth took out her work, and
      seated herself, on guard, in the center of the pit.
    </p>
    <p>
      The manager perched himself, book in hand, on a stool close in front of
      the stage. He was an active little man, of a sweet and cheerful temper;
      and he gave the signal to begin with as patient an interest in the
      proceedings as if they had caused him no trouble in the past and promised
      him no difficulty in the future. The two characters which opened the
      comedy of The Rivals, &ldquo;Fag&rdquo; and &ldquo;The Coachman,&rdquo; appeared on the scene&mdash;looked
      many sizes too tall for their canvas background, which represented a
      &ldquo;Street in Bath&rdquo;&mdash;exhibited the customary inability to manage their
      own arms, legs, and voices&mdash;went out severally at the wrong exits&mdash;and
      expressed their perfect approval of results, so far, by laughing heartily
      behind the scenes. &ldquo;Silence, gentlemen, if you please,&rdquo; remonstrated the
      cheerful manager. &ldquo;As loud as you like <i>on</i> the stage, but the
      audience mustn&rsquo;t hear you <i>off</i> it. Miss Marrable ready? Miss
      Vanstone ready? Easy there with the &lsquo;Street in Bath&rsquo;; it&rsquo;s going up
      crooked! Face this way, Miss Marrable; full face, if you please. Miss
      Vanstone&mdash;&rdquo; he checked himself suddenly. &ldquo;Curious,&rdquo; he said, under
      his breath&mdash;&ldquo;she fronts the audience of her own accord!&rdquo; Lucy opened
      the scene in these words: &ldquo;Indeed, ma&rsquo;am, I traversed half the town in
      search of it: I don&rsquo;t believe there&rsquo;s a circulating library in Bath I
      haven&rsquo;t been at.&rdquo; The manager started in his chair. &ldquo;My heart alive! she
      speaks out without telling!&rdquo; The dialogue went on. Lucy produced the
      novels for Miss Lydia Languish&rsquo;s private reading from under her cloak. The
      manager rose excitably to his feet. Marvelous! No hurry with the books; no
      dropping them. She looked at the titles before she announced them to her
      mistress; she set down &ldquo;Humphrey Clinker&rdquo; on &ldquo;The Tears of Sensibility&rdquo;
       with a smart little smack which pointed the antithesis. One moment&mdash;and
      she announced Julia&rsquo;s visit; another&mdash;and she dropped the brisk
      waiting-maid&rsquo;s courtesy; a third&mdash;and she was off the stage on the
      side set down for her in the book. The manager wheeled round on his stool,
      and looked hard at Miss Garth. &ldquo;I beg your pardon, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Miss
      Marrable told me, before we began, that this was the young lady&rsquo;s first
      attempt. It can&rsquo;t be, surely!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is,&rdquo; replied Miss Garth, reflecting the manager&rsquo;s look of amazement on
      her own face. Was it possible that Magdalen&rsquo;s unintelligible industry in
      the study of her part really sprang from a serious interest in her
      occupation&mdash;an interest which implied a natural fitness for it.
    </p>
    <p>
      The rehearsal went on. The stout lady with the wig (and the excellent
      heart) personated the sentimental Julia from an inveterately tragic point
      of view, and used her handkerchief distractedly in the first scene. The
      spinster relative felt Mrs. Malaprop&rsquo;s mistakes in language so seriously,
      and took such extraordinary pains with her blunders, that they sounded
      more like exercises in elocution than anything else. The unhappy lad who
      led the forlorn hope of the company, in the person of &ldquo;Sir Anthony
      Absolute,&rdquo; expressed the age and irascibility of his character by
      tottering incessantly at the knees, and thumping the stage perpetually
      with his stick. Slowly and clumsily, with constant interruptions and
      interminable mistakes, the first act dragged on, until Lucy appeared again
      to end it in soliloquy, with the confession of her assumed simplicity and
      the praise of her own cunning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Here the stage artifice of the situation presented difficulties which
      Magdalen had not encountered in the first scene&mdash;and here, her total
      want of experience led her into more than one palpable mistake. The
      stage-manager, with an eagerness which he had not shown in the case of any
      other member of the company, interfered immediately, and set her right. At
      one point she was to pause, and take a turn on the stage&mdash;she did it.
      At another, she was to stop, toss her head, and look pertly at the
      audience&mdash;she did it. When she took out the paper to read the list of
      the presents she had received, could she give it a tap with her finger
      (Yes)? And lead off with a little laugh (Yes&mdash;after twice trying)?
      Could she read the different items with a sly look at the end of each
      sentence, straight at the pit (Yes, straight at the pit, and as sly as you
      please)? The manager&rsquo;s cheerful face beamed with approval. He tucked the
      play under his arm, and clapped his hands gayly; the gentlemen, clustered
      together behind the scenes, followed his example; the ladies looked at
      each other with dawning doubts whether they had not better have left the
      new recruit in the retirement of private life. Too deeply absorbed in the
      business of the stage to heed any of them, Magdalen asked leave to repeat
      the soliloquy, and make quite sure of her own improvement. She went all
      through it again without a mistake, this time, from beginning to end; the
      manager celebrating her attention to his directions by an outburst of
      professional approbation, which escaped him in spite of himself. &ldquo;She can
      take a hint!&rdquo; cried the little man, with a hearty smack of his hand on the
      prompt-book. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s a born actress, if ever there was one yet!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope not,&rdquo; said Miss Garth to herself, taking up the work which had
      dropped into her lap, and looking down at it in some perplexity. Her worst
      apprehension of results in connection with the theatrical enterprise had
      foreboded levity of conduct with some of the gentlemen&mdash;she had not
      bargained for this. Magdalen, in the capacity of a thoughtless girl, was
      comparatively easy to deal with. Magdalen, in the character of a born
      actress, threatened serious future difficulties.
    </p>
    <p>
      The rehearsal proceeded. Lucy returned to the stage for her scenes in the
      second act (the last in which she appears) with Sir Lucius and Fag. Here,
      again, Magdalen&rsquo;s inexperience betrayed itself&mdash;and here once more
      her resolution in attacking and conquering her own mistakes astonished
      everybody. &ldquo;Bravo!&rdquo; cried the gentlemen behind the scenes, as she steadily
      trampled down one blunder after another. &ldquo;Ridiculous!&rdquo; said the ladies,
      &ldquo;with such a small part as hers.&rdquo; &ldquo;Heaven forgive me!&rdquo; thought Miss.
      Garth, coming round unwillingly to the general opinion. &ldquo;I almost wish we
      were Papists, and I had a convent to put her in to-morrow.&rdquo; One of Mr.
      Marrable&rsquo;s servants entered the theater as that desperate aspiration
      escaped the governess. She instantly sent the man behind the scene with a
      message: &ldquo;Miss Vanstone has done her part in the rehearsal; request her to
      come here and sit by me.&rdquo; The servant returned with a polite apology:
      &ldquo;Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s kind love, and she begs to be excused&mdash;she&rsquo;s
      prompting Mr. Clare.&rdquo; She prompted him to such purpose that he actually
      got through his part. The performances of the other gentlemen were
      obtrusively imbecile. Frank was just one degree better&mdash;he was
      modestly incapable; and he gained by comparison. &ldquo;Thanks to Miss
      Vanstone,&rdquo; observed the manager, who had heard the prompting. &ldquo;She pulled
      him through. We shall be flat enough at night, when the drop falls on the
      second act, and the audience have seen the last of her. It&rsquo;s a thousand
      pities she hasn&rsquo;t got a better part!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a thousand mercies she&rsquo;s no more to do than she has,&rdquo; muttered Miss
      Garth, overhearing him. &ldquo;As things are, the people can&rsquo;t well turn her
      head with applause. She&rsquo;s out of the play in the second act&mdash;that&rsquo;s
      one comfort!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      No well-regulated mind ever draws its inferences in a hurry; Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      mind was well regulated; therefore, logically speaking, Miss Garth ought
      to have been superior to the weakness of rushing at conclusions. She had
      committed that error, nevertheless, under present circumstances. In
      plainer terms, the consoling reflection which had just occurred to her
      assumed that the play had by this time survived all its disasters, and
      entered on its long-deferred career of success. The play had done nothing
      of the sort. Misfortune and the Marrable family had not parted company
      yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the rehearsal was over, nobody observed that the stout lady with the
      wig privately withdrew herself from the company; and when she was
      afterward missed from the table of refreshments, which Mr. Marrable&rsquo;s
      hospitality kept ready spread in a room near the theater, nobody imagined
      that there was any serious reason for her absence. It was not till the
      ladies and gentlemen assembled for the next rehearsal that the true state
      of the case was impressed on the minds of the company. At the appointed
      hour no Julia appeared. In her stead, Mrs. Marrable portentously
      approached the stage, with an open letter in her hand. She was naturally a
      lady of the mildest good breeding: she was mistress of every bland
      conventionality in the English language&mdash;but disasters and dramatic
      influences combined, threw even this harmless matron off her balance at
      last. For the first time in her life Mrs. Marrable indulged in vehement
      gesture, and used strong language. She handed the letter sternly, at
      arms-length, to her daughter. &ldquo;My dear,&rdquo; she said, with an aspect of awful
      composure, &ldquo;we are under a Curse.&rdquo; Before the amazed dramatic company
      could petition for an explanation, she turned and left the room. The
      manager&rsquo;s professional eye followed her out respectfully&mdash;he looked
      as if he approved of the exit, from a theatrical point of view.
    </p>
    <p>
      What new misfortune had befallen the play? The last and worst of all
      misfortunes had assailed it. The stout lady had resigned her part.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not maliciously. Her heart, which had been in the right place throughout,
      remained inflexibly in the right place still. Her explanation of the
      circumstances proved this, if nothing else did. The letter began with a
      statement: She had overheard, at the last rehearsal (quite
      unintentionally), personal remarks of which she was the subject. They
      might, or might not, have had reference to her&mdash;Hair; and her&mdash;Figure.
      She would not distress Mrs. Marrable by repeating them. Neither would she
      mention names, because it was foreign to her nature to make bad worse. The
      only course at all consistent with her own self-respect was to resign her
      part. She inclosed it, accordingly, to Mrs. Marrable, with many apologies
      for her presumption in undertaking a youthful character, at&mdash;what a
      gentleman was pleased to term&mdash;her Age; and with what two ladies were
      rude enough to characterize as her disadvantages of&mdash;Hair, and&mdash;Figure.
      A younger and more attractive representative of Julia would no doubt be
      easily found. In the meantime, all persons concerned had her full
      forgiveness, to which she would only beg leave to add her best and kindest
      wishes for the success of the play.
    </p>
    <p>
      In four nights more the play was to be performed. If ever any human
      enterprise stood in need of good wishes to help it, that enterprise was
      unquestionably the theatrical entertainment at Evergreen Lodge!
    </p>
    <p>
      One arm-chair was allowed on the stage; and into that arm-chair Miss
      Marrable sank, preparatory to a fit of hysterics. Magdalen stepped forward
      at the first convulsion; snatched the letter from Miss Marrable&rsquo;s hand;
      and stopped the threatened catastrophe.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She&rsquo;s an ugly, bald-headed, malicious, middle-aged wretch!&rdquo; said
      Magdalen, tearing the letter into fragments, and tossing them over the
      heads of the company. &ldquo;But I can tell her one thing&mdash;she shan&rsquo;t spoil
      the play. I&rsquo;ll act Julia.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bravo!&rdquo; cried the chorus of gentlemen&mdash;the anonymous gentleman who
      had helped to do the mischief (otherwise Mr. Francis Clare) loudest of
      all.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you want the truth, I don&rsquo;t shrink from owning it,&rdquo; continued
      Magdalen. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m one of the ladies she means. I said she had a head like a
      mop, and a waist like a bolster. So she has.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am the other lady,&rdquo; added the spinster relative. &ldquo;But I only said she
      was too stout for the part.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am the gentleman,&rdquo; chimed in Frank, stimulated by the force of example.
      &ldquo;I said nothing&mdash;I only agreed with the ladies.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Here Miss Garth seized her opportunity, and addressed the stage loudly
      from the pit.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop! Stop!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t settle the difficulty that way. If
      Magdalen plays Julia, who is to play Lucy?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Marrable sank back in the arm-chair, and gave way to the second
      convulsion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stuff and nonsense!&rdquo; cried Magdalen, &ldquo;the thing&rsquo;s simple enough, I&rsquo;ll act
      Julia and Lucy both together.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The manager was consulted on the spot. Suppressing Lucy&rsquo;s first entrance,
      and turning the short dialogue about the novels into a soliloquy for Lydia
      Languish, appeared to be the only changes of importance necessary to the
      accomplishment of Magdalen&rsquo;s project. Lucy&rsquo;s two telling scenes, at the
      end of the first and second acts, were sufficiently removed from the
      scenes in which Julia appeared to give time for the necessary
      transformations in dress. Even Miss Garth, though she tried hard to find
      them, could put no fresh obstacles in the way. The question was settled in
      five minutes, and the rehearsal went on; Magdalen learning Julia&rsquo;s stage
      situations with the book in her hand, and announcing afterward, on the
      journey home, that she proposed sitting up all night to study the new
      part. Frank thereupon expressed his fears that she would have no time left
      to help him through his theatrical difficulties. She tapped him on the
      shoulder coquettishly with her part. &ldquo;You foolish fellow, how am I to do
      without you? You&rsquo;re Julia&rsquo;s jealous lover; you&rsquo;re always making Julia cry.
      Come to-night, and make me cry at tea-time. You haven&rsquo;t got a venomous old
      woman in a wig to act with now. It&rsquo;s <i>my</i> heart you&rsquo;re to break&mdash;and
      of course I shall teach you how to do it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The four days&rsquo; interval passed busily in perpetual rehearsals, public and
      private. The night of performance arrived; the guests assembled; the great
      dramatic experiment stood on its trial. Magdalen had made the most of her
      opportunities; she had learned all that the manager could teach her in the
      time. Miss Garth left her when the overture began, sitting apart in a
      corner behind the scenes, serious and silent, with her smelling-bottle in
      one hand, and her book in the other, resolutely training herself for the
      coming ordeal, to the very last.
    </p>
    <p>
      The play began, with all the proper accompaniments of a theatrical
      performance in private life; with a crowded audience, an African
      temperature, a bursting of heated lamp-glasses, and a difficulty in
      drawing up the curtain. &ldquo;Fag&rdquo; and &ldquo;the Coachman,&rdquo; who opened the scene,
      took leave of their memories as soon as they stepped on the stage; left
      half their dialogue unspoken; came to a dead pause; were audibly entreated
      by the invisible manager to &ldquo;come off&rdquo;; and went off accordingly, in every
      respect sadder and wiser men than when they went on. The next scene
      disclosed Miss Marrable as &ldquo;Lydia Languish,&rdquo; gracefully seated, very
      pretty, beautifully dressed, accurately mistress of the smallest words in
      her part; possessed, in short, of every personal resource&mdash;except her
      voice. The ladies admired, the gentlemen applauded. Nobody heard anything
      but the words &ldquo;Speak up, miss,&rdquo; whispered by the same voice which had
      already entreated &ldquo;Fag&rdquo; and &ldquo;the Coachman&rdquo; to &ldquo;come off.&rdquo; A responsive
      titter rose among the younger spectators; checked immediately by
      magnanimous applause. The temperature of the audience was rising to Blood
      Heat&mdash;but the national sense of fair play was not boiled out of them
      yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the midst of the demonstration, Magdalen quietly made her first
      entrance, as &ldquo;Julia.&rdquo; She was dressed very plainly in dark colors, and
      wore her own hair; all stage adjuncts and alterations (excepting the
      slightest possible touch of rouge on her cheeks) having been kept in
      reserve to disguise her the more effectually in her second part. The grace
      and simplicity of her costume, the steady self-possession with which she
      looked out over the eager rows of faces before her, raised a low hum of
      approval and expectation. She spoke&mdash;after suppressing a momentary
      tremor&mdash;with a quiet distinctness of utterance which reached all
      ears, and which at once confirmed the favorable impression that her
      appearance had produced. The one member of the audience who looked at her
      and listened to her coldly, was her elder sister. Before the actress of
      the evening had been five minutes on the stage, Norah detected, to her own
      indescribable astonishment, that Magdalen had audaciously individualized
      the feeble amiability of &ldquo;Julia&rsquo;s&rdquo; character, by seizing no less a person
      than herself as the model to act it by. She saw all her own little formal
      peculiarities of manner and movement unblushingly reproduced&mdash;and
      even the very tone of her voice so accurately mimicked from time to time,
      that the accents startled her as if she was speaking herself, with an echo
      on the stage. The effect of this cool appropriation of Norah&rsquo;s identity to
      theatrical purposes on the audience&mdash;who only saw results&mdash;asserted
      itself in a storm of applause on Magdalen&rsquo;s exit. She had won two
      incontestable triumphs in her first scene. By a dexterous piece of
      mimicry, she had made a living reality of one of the most insipid
      characters in the English drama; and she had roused to enthusiasm an
      audience of two hundred exiles from the blessings of ventilation, all
      simmering together in their own animal heat. Under the circumstances,
      where is the actress by profession who could have done much more?
    </p>
    <p>
      But the event of the evening was still to come. Magdalen&rsquo;s disguised
      re-appearance at the end of the act, in the character of &ldquo;Lucy&rdquo;&mdash;with
      false hair and false eyebrows, with a bright-red complexion and patches on
      her cheeks, with the gayest colors flaunting in her dress, and the
      shrillest vivacity of voice and manner&mdash;fairly staggered the
      audience. They looked down at their programmes, in which the
      representative of Lucy figured under an assumed name; looked up again at
      the stage; penetrated the disguise; and vented their astonishment in
      another round of applause, louder and heartier even than the last. Norah
      herself could not deny this time that the tribute of approbation had been
      well deserved. There, forcing its way steadily through all the faults of
      inexperience&mdash;there, plainly visible to the dullest of the
      spectators, was the rare faculty of dramatic impersonation, expressing
      itself in every look and action of this girl of eighteen, who now stood on
      a stage for the first time in her life. Failing in many minor requisites
      of the double task which she had undertaken, she succeeded in the one
      important necessity of keeping the main distinctions of the two characters
      thoroughly apart. Everybody felt that the difficulty lay here&mdash;everybody
      saw the difficulty conquered&mdash;everybody echoed the manager&rsquo;s
      enthusiasm at rehearsal, which had hailed her as a born actress.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the drop-scene descended for the first time, Magdalen had
      concentrated in herself the whole interest and attraction of the play. The
      audience politely applauded Miss Marrable, as became the guests assembled
      in her father&rsquo;s house: and good-humoredly encouraged the remainder of the
      company, to help them through a task for which they were all, more or
      less, palpably unfit. But, as the play proceeded, nothing roused them to
      any genuine expression of interest when Magdalen was absent from the
      scene. There was no disguising it: Miss Marrable and her bosom friends had
      been all hopelessly cast in the shade by the new recruit whom they had
      summoned to assist them, in the capacity of forlorn hope. And this on Miss
      Marrable&rsquo;s own birthday! and this in her father&rsquo;s house! and this after
      the unutterable sacrifices of six weeks past! Of all the domestic
      disasters which the thankless theatrical enterprise had inflicted on the
      Marrable family, the crowning misfortune was now consummated by Magdalen&rsquo;s
      success.
    </p>
    <p>
      Leaving Mr. Vanstone and Norah, on the conclusion of the play, among the
      guests in the supper-room, Miss Garth went behind the scenes; ostensibly
      anxious to see if she could be of any use; really bent on ascertaining
      whether Magdalen&rsquo;s head had been turned by the triumphs of the evening. It
      would not have surprised Miss Garth if she had discovered her pupil in the
      act of making terms with the manager for her forthcoming appearance in a
      public theater. As events really turned out, she found Magdalen on the
      stage, receiving, with gracious smiles, a card which the manager presented
      to her with a professional bow. Noticing Miss Garth&rsquo;s mute look of
      inquiry, the civil little man hastened to explain that the card was his
      own, and that he was merely asking the favor of Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s
      recommendation at any future opportunity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is not the last time the young lady will be concerned in private
      theatricals, I&rsquo;ll answer for it,&rdquo; said the manager. &ldquo;And if a
      superintendent is wanted on the next occasion, she has kindly promised to
      say a good word for me. I am always to be heard of, miss, at that
      address.&rdquo; Saying those words, he bowed again, and discreetly disappeared.
    </p>
    <p>
      Vague suspicions beset the mind of Miss Garth, and urged her to insist on
      looking at the card. No more harmless morsel of pasteboard was ever passed
      from one hand to another. The card contained nothing but the manager&rsquo;s
      name, and, under it, the name and address of a theatrical agent in London.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is not worth the trouble of keeping,&rdquo; said Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen caught her hand before she could throw the card away&mdash;possessed
      herself of it the next instant&mdash;and put it in her pocket.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I promised to recommend him,&rdquo; she said&mdash;&ldquo;and that&rsquo;s one reason for
      keeping his card. If it does nothing else, it will remind me of the
      happiest evening of my life&mdash;and that&rsquo;s another. Come!&rdquo; she cried,
      throwing her arms round Miss Garth with a feverish gayety&mdash;&ldquo;congratulate
      me on my success!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will congratulate you when you have got over it,&rdquo; said Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      In half an hour more Magdalen had changed her dress; had joined the
      guests; and had soared into an atmosphere of congratulation high above the
      reach of any controlling influence that Miss Garth could exercise. Frank,
      dilatory in all his proceedings, was the last of the dramatic company who
      left the precincts of the stage. He made no attempt to join Magdalen in
      the supper-room&mdash;but he was ready in the hall with her cloak when the
      carriages were called and the party broke up.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Frank!&rdquo; she said, looking round at him as he put the cloak on her
      shoulders, &ldquo;I am so sorry it&rsquo;s all over! Come to-morrow morning, and let&rsquo;s
      talk about it by ourselves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the shrubbery at ten?&rdquo; asked Frank, in a whisper.
    </p>
    <p>
      She drew up the hood of her cloak and nodded to him gayly. Miss Garth,
      standing near, noticed the looks that passed between them, though the
      disturbance made by the parting guests prevented her from hearing the
      words. There was a soft, underlying tenderness in Magdalen&rsquo;s assumed
      gayety of manner&mdash;there was a sudden thoughtfulness in her face, a
      confidential readiness in her hand, as she took Frank&rsquo;s arm and went out
      to the carriage. What did it mean? Had her passing interest in him as her
      stage-pupil treacherously sown the seeds of any deeper interest in him, as
      a man? Had the idle theatrical scheme, now that it was all over, graver
      results to answer for than a mischievous waste of time?
    </p>
    <p>
      The lines on Miss Garth&rsquo;s face deepened and hardened: she stood lost among
      the fluttering crowd around her. Norah&rsquo;s warning words, addressed to Mrs.
      Vanstone in the garden, recurred to her memory&mdash;and now, for the
      first time, the idea dawned on her that Norah had seen the consequences in
      their true light.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      EARLY the next morning Miss Garth and Norah met in the garden and spoke
      together privately. The only noticeable result of the interview, when they
      presented themselves at the breakfast-table, appeared in the marked
      silence which they both maintained on the topic of the theatrical
      performance. Mrs. Vanstone was entirely indebted to her husband and to her
      youngest daughter for all that she heard of the evening&rsquo;s entertainment.
      The governess and the elder daughter had evidently determined on letting
      the subject drop.
    </p>
    <p>
      After breakfast was over Magdalen proved to be missing, when the ladies
      assembled as usual in the morning-room. Her habits were so little regular
      that Mrs. Vanstone felt neither surprise nor uneasiness at her absence.
      Miss Garth and Norah looked at one another significantly, and waited in
      silence. Two hours passed&mdash;and there were no signs of Magdalen. Norah
      rose, as the clock struck twelve, and quietly left the room to look for
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      She was not upstairs dusting her jewelry and disarranging her dresses. She
      was not in the conservatory, not in the flower-garden; not in the kitchen
      teasing the cook; not in the yard playing with the dogs. Had she, by any
      chance, gone out with her father? Mr. Vanstone had announced his
      intention, at the breakfast-table, of paying a morning visit to his old
      ally, Mr. Clare, and of rousing the philosopher&rsquo;s sarcastic indignation by
      an account of the dramatic performance. None of the other ladies at
      Combe-Raven ever ventured themselves inside the cottage. But Magdalen was
      reckless enough for anything&mdash;and Magdalen might have gone there. As
      the idea occurred to her, Norah entered the shrubbery.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the second turning, where the path among the trees wound away out of
      sight of the house, she came suddenly face to face with Magdalen and
      Frank: they were sauntering toward her, arm in arm, their heads close
      together, their conversation apparently proceeding in whispers. They
      looked suspiciously handsome and happy. At the sight of Norah both
      started, and both stopped. Frank confusedly raised his hat, and turned
      back in the direction of his father&rsquo;s cottage. Magdalen advanced to meet
      her sister, carelessly swinging her closed parasol from side to side,
      carelessly humming an air from the overture which had preceded the rising
      of the curtain on the previous night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Luncheon-time already!&rdquo; she said, looking at her watch. &ldquo;Surely not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you and Mr. Francis Clare been alone in the shrubbery since ten
      o&rsquo;clock?&rdquo; asked Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;<i>Mr.</i> Francis Clare! How ridiculously formal you are. Why don&rsquo;t you
      call him Frank?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I asked you a question, Magdalen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dear me, how black you look this morning! I&rsquo;m in disgrace, I suppose.
      Haven&rsquo;t you forgiven me yet for my acting last night? I couldn&rsquo;t help it,
      love; I should have made nothing of Julia, if I hadn&rsquo;t taken you for my
      model. It&rsquo;s quite a question of Art. In your place, I should have felt
      flattered by the selection.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In <i>your</i> place, Magdalen, I should have thought twice before I
      mimicked my sister to an audience of strangers.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s exactly why I did it&mdash;an audience of strangers. How were they
      to know? Come! come! don&rsquo;t be angry. You are eight years older than I am&mdash;you
      ought to set me an example of good-humor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will set you an example of plain-speaking. I am more sorry than I can
      say, Magdalen, to meet you as I met you here just now!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What next, I wonder? You meet me in the shrubbery at home, talking over
      the private theatricals with my old playfellow, whom I knew when I was no
      taller than this parasol. And that is a glaring impropriety, is it? &lsquo;Honi
      soit qui mal y pense.&rsquo; You wanted an answer a minute ago&mdash;there it is
      for you, my dear, in the choicest Norman-French.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am in earnest about this, Magdalen&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not a doubt of it. Nobody can accuse you of ever making jokes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am seriously sorry&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, dear!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is quite useless to interrupt me. I have it on my conscience to tell
      you&mdash;and I <i>will</i> tell you&mdash;that I am sorry to see how this
      intimacy is growing. I am sorry to see a secret understanding established
      already between you and Mr. Francis Clare.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Poor Frank! How you do hate him, to be sure. What on earth has he done to
      offend you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah&rsquo;s self-control began to show signs of failing her. Her dark cheeks
      glowed, her delicate lips trembled, before she spoke again. Magdalen paid
      more attention to her parasol than to her sister. She tossed it high in
      the air and caught it. &ldquo;Once!&rdquo; she said&mdash;and tossed it up again.
      &ldquo;Twice!&rdquo;&mdash;and she tossed it higher. &ldquo;Thrice&mdash;&rdquo; Before she could
      catch it for the third time, Norah seized her passionately by the arm, and
      the parasol dropped to the ground between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are treating me heartlessly,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;For shame, Magdalen&mdash;for
      shame!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The irrepressible outburst of a reserved nature, forced into open
      self-assertion in its own despite, is of all moral forces the hardest to
      resist. Magdalen was startled into silence. For a moment, the two sisters&mdash;so
      strangely dissimilar in person and character&mdash;faced one another,
      without a word passing between them. For a moment the deep brown eyes of
      the elder and the light gray eyes of the younger looked into each other
      with steady, unyielding scrutiny on either side. Norah&rsquo;s face was the
      first to change; Norah&rsquo;s head was the first to turn away. She dropped her
      sister&rsquo;s arm in silence. Magdalen stooped and picked up her parasol.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I try to keep my temper,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and you call me heartless for doing
      it. You always were hard on me, and you always will be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah clasped her trembling hands fast in each other. &ldquo;Hard on you!&rdquo; she
      said, in low, mournful tones&mdash;and sighed bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen drew back a little, and mechanically dusted the parasol with the
      end of her garden cloak.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; she resumed, doggedly. &ldquo;Hard on me and hard on Frank.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Frank!&rdquo; repeated Norah, advancing on her sister and turning pale as
      suddenly as she had turned red. &ldquo;Do you talk of yourself and Frank as if
      your interests were One already? Magdalen! if I hurt <i>you</i>, do I hurt
      <i>him</i>? Is he so near and so dear to you as that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen drew further and further back. A twig from a tree near caught her
      cloak; she turned petulantly, broke it off, and threw it on the ground.
      &ldquo;What right have you to question me?&rdquo; she broke out on a sudden. &ldquo;Whether
      I like Frank, or whether I don&rsquo;t, what interest is it of yours?&rdquo; As she
      said the words, she abruptly stepped forward to pass her sister and return
      to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah, turning paler and paler, barred the way to her. &ldquo;If I hold you by
      main force,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;you shall stop and hear me. I have watched this
      Francis Clare; I know him better than you do. He is unworthy of a moment&rsquo;s
      serious feeling on your part; he is unworthy of our dear, good,
      kind-hearted father&rsquo;s interest in him. A man with any principle, any
      honor, any gratitude, would not have come back as he has come back,
      disgraced&mdash;yes! disgraced by his spiritless neglect of his own duty.
      I watched his face while the friend who has been better than a father to
      him was comforting and forgiving him with a kindness he had not deserved:
      I watched his face, and I saw no shame and no distress in it&mdash;I saw
      nothing but a look of thankless, heartless relief. He is selfish, he is
      ungrateful, he is ungenerous&mdash;he is only twenty, and he has the worst
      failings of a mean old age already. And this is the man I find you meeting
      in secret&mdash;the man who has taken such a place in your favor that you
      are deaf to the truth about him, even from <i>my</i> lips! Magdalen! this
      will end ill. For God&rsquo;s sake, think of what I have said to you, and
      control yourself before it is too late!&rdquo; She stopped, vehement and
      breathless, and caught her sister anxiously by the hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen looked at her in unconcealed astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are so violent,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and so unlike yourself, that I hardly
      know you. The more patient I am, the more hard words I get for my pains.
      You have taken a perverse hatred to Frank; and you are unreasonably angry
      with me because I won&rsquo;t hate him, too. Don&rsquo;t, Norah! you hurt my hand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah pushed the hand from her contemptuously. &ldquo;I shall never hurt your
      heart,&rdquo; she said; and suddenly turned her back on Magdalen as she spoke
      the words.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was a momentary pause. Norah kept her position. Magdalen looked at
      her perplexedly&mdash;hesitated&mdash;then walked away by herself toward
      the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the turn in the shrubbery path she stopped and looked back uneasily.
      &ldquo;Oh, dear, dear!&rdquo; she thought to herself, &ldquo;why didn&rsquo;t Frank go when I told
      him?&rdquo; She hesitated, and went back a few steps. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s Norah standing on
      her dignity, as obstinate as ever.&rdquo; She stopped again. &ldquo;What had I better
      do? I hate quarreling: I think I&rsquo;ll make up.&rdquo; She ventured close to her
      sister and touched her on the shoulder. Norah never moved. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not often
      she flies into a passion,&rdquo; thought Magdalen, touching her again; &ldquo;but when
      she does, what a time it lasts her!&mdash;Come!&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;give me a
      kiss, Norah, and make it up. Won&rsquo;t you let me get at any part of you, my
      dear, but the back of your neck? Well, it&rsquo;s a very nice neck&mdash;it&rsquo;s
      better worth kissing than mine&mdash;and there the kiss is, in spite of
      you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She caught fast hold of Norah from behind, and suited the action to the
      word, with a total disregard of all that had just passed, which her sister
      was far from emulating. Hardly a minute since the warm outpouring of
      Norah&rsquo;s heart had burst through all obstacles. Had the icy reserve frozen
      her up again already! It was hard to say. She never spoke; she never
      changed her position&mdash;she only searched hurriedly for her
      handkerchief. As she drew it out, there was a sound of approaching
      footsteps in the inner recesses of the shrubbery. A Scotch terrier
      scampered into view; and a cheerful voice sang the first lines of the glee
      in &ldquo;As You Like It.&rdquo; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s papa!&rdquo; cried Magdalen. &ldquo;Come, Norah&mdash;come
      and meet him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Instead of following her sister, Norah pulled down the veil of her garden
      hat, turned in the opposite direction, and hurried back to the house. She
      ran up to her own room and locked herself in. She was crying bitterly.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VIII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      WHEN Magdalen and her father met in the shrubbery Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s face
      showed plainly that something had happened to please him since he had left
      home in the morning. He answered the question which his daughter&rsquo;s
      curiosity at once addressed to him by informing her that he had just come
      from Mr. Clare&rsquo;s cottage; and that he had picked up, in that unpromising
      locality, a startling piece of news for the family at Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      On entering the philosopher&rsquo;s study that morning, Mr. Vanstone had found
      him still dawdling over his late breakfast, with an open letter by his
      side, in place of the book which, on other occasions, lay ready to his
      hand at meal-times. He held up the letter the moment his visitor came into
      the room, and abruptly opened the conversation by asking Mr. Vanstone if
      his nerves were in good order, and if he felt himself strong enough for
      the shock of an overwhelming surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nerves!&rdquo; repeated Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;Thank God, I know nothing about my
      nerves. If you have got anything to tell me, shock or no shock, out with
      it on the spot.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare held the letter a little higher, and frowned at his visitor
      across the breakfast-table. &ldquo;What have I always told you?&rdquo; he asked, with
      his sourest solemnity of look and manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A great deal more than I could ever keep in my head,&rdquo; answered Mr.
      Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In your presence and out of it,&rdquo; continued Mr. Clare, &ldquo;I have always
      maintained that the one important phenomenon presented by modern society
      is&mdash;the enormous prosperity of Fools. Show me an individual Fool, and
      I will show you an aggregate Society which gives that highly-favored
      personage nine chances out of ten&mdash;and grudges the tenth to the
      wisest man in existence. Look where you will, in every high place there
      sits an Ass, settled beyond the reach of all the greatest intellects in
      this world to pull him down. Over our whole social system, complacent
      Imbecility rules supreme&mdash;snuffs out the searching light of
      Intelligence with total impunity&mdash;and hoots, owl-like, in answer to
      every form of protest, See how well we all do in the dark! One of these
      days that audacious assertion will be practically contradicted, and the
      whole rotten system of modern society will come down with a crash.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God forbid!&rdquo; cried Mr. Vanstone, looking about him as if the crash was
      coming already.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With a crash!&rdquo; repeated Mr. Clare. &ldquo;There is my theory, in few words. Now
      for the remarkable application of it which this letter suggests. Here is
      my lout of a boy&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t mean that Frank has got another chance?&rdquo; exclaimed Mr.
      Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here is this perfectly hopeless booby, Frank,&rdquo; pursued the philosopher.
      &ldquo;He has never done anything in his life to help himself, and, as a
      necessary consequence, Society is in a conspiracy to carry him to the top
      of the tree. He has hardly had time to throw away that chance you gave him
      before this letter comes, and puts the ball at his foot for the second
      time. My rich cousin (who is intellectually fit to be at the tail of the
      family, and who is, therefore, as a matter of course, at the head of it)
      has been good enough to remember my existence; and has offered his
      influence to serve my eldest boy. Read his letter, and then observe the
      sequence of events. My rich cousin is a booby who thrives on landed
      property; he has done something for another booby who thrives on Politics,
      who knows a third booby who thrives on Commerce, who can do something for
      a fourth booby, thriving at present on nothing, whose name is Frank. So
      the mill goes. So the cream of all human rewards is sipped in endless
      succession by the Fools. I shall pack Frank off to-morrow. In course of
      time he&rsquo;ll come back again on our hands, like a bad shilling; more chances
      will fall in his way, as a necessary consequence of his meritorious
      imbecility. Years will go on&mdash;I may not live to see it, no more may
      you&mdash;it doesn&rsquo;t matter; Frank&rsquo;s future is equally certain either way&mdash;put
      him into the army, the Church, politics, what you please, and let him
      drift: he&rsquo;ll end in being a general, a bishop, or a minister of State, by
      dint of the great modern qualification of doing nothing whatever to
      deserve his place.&rdquo; With this summary of his son&rsquo;s worldly prospects, Mr.
      Clare tossed the letter contemptuously across the table and poured himself
      out another cup of tea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone read the letter with eager interest and pleasure. It was
      written in a tone of somewhat elaborate cordiality; but the practical
      advantages which it placed at Frank&rsquo;s disposal were beyond all doubt. The
      writer had the means of using a friend&rsquo;s interest&mdash;interest of no
      ordinary kind&mdash;with a great Mercantile Firm in the City; and he had
      at once exerted this influence in favor of Mr. Clare&rsquo;s eldest boy. Frank
      would be received in the office on a very different footing from the
      footing of an ordinary clerk; he would be &ldquo;pushed on&rdquo; at every available
      opportunity; and the first &ldquo;good thing&rdquo; the House had to offer, either at
      home or abroad, would be placed at his disposal. If he possessed fair
      abilities and showed common diligence in exercising them, his fortune was
      made; and the sooner he was sent to London to begin the better for his own
      interests it would be.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wonderful news!&rdquo; cried Mr. Vanstone, returning the letter. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m delighted&mdash;I
      must go back and tell them at home. This is fifty times the chance that
      mine was. What the deuce do you mean by abusing Society? Society has
      behaved uncommonly well, in my opinion. Where&rsquo;s Frank?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lurking,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare. &ldquo;It is one of the intolerable peculiarities of
      louts that they always lurk. I haven&rsquo;t seen <i>my</i> lout this morning.
      It you meet with him anywhere, give him a kick, and say I want him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare&rsquo;s opinion of his son&rsquo;s habits might have been expressed more
      politely as to form; but, as to substance, it happened, on that particular
      morning, to be perfectly correct. After leaving Magdalen, Frank had waited
      in the shrubbery, at a safe distance, on the chance that she might detach
      herself from her sister&rsquo;s company, and join him again. Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      appearance immediately on Norah&rsquo;s departure, instead of encouraging him to
      show himself, had determined him on returning to the cottage. He walked
      back discontentedly; and so fell into his father&rsquo;s clutches, totally
      unprepared for the pending announcement, in that formidable quarter, of
      his departure for London.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the meantime, Mr. Vanstone had communicated his news&mdash;in the first
      place, to Magdalen, and afterward, on getting back to the house, to his
      wife and Miss Garth. He was too unobservant a man to notice that Magdalen
      looked unaccountably startled, and Miss Garth unaccountably relieved, by
      his announcement of Frank&rsquo;s good fortune. He talked on about it, quite
      unsuspiciously, until the luncheon-bell rang&mdash;and then, for the first
      time, he noticed Norah&rsquo;s absence. She sent a message downstairs, after
      they had assembled at the table, to say that a headache was keeping her in
      her own room. When Miss Garth went up shortly afterward to communicate the
      news about Frank, Norah appeared, strangely enough, to feel very little
      relieved by hearing it. Mr. Francis Clare had gone away on a former
      occasion (she remarked), and had come back. He might come back again, and
      sooner than they any of them thought for. She said no more on the subject
      than this: she made no reference to what had taken place in the shrubbery.
      Her unconquerable reserve seemed to have strengthened its hold on her
      since the outburst of the morning. She met Magdalen, later in the day, as
      if nothing had happened: no formal reconciliation took place between them.
      It was one of Norah&rsquo;s peculiarities to shrink from all reconciliations
      that were openly ratified, and to take her shy refuge in reconciliations
      that were silently implied. Magdalen saw plainly, in her look and manner,
      that she had made her first and last protest. Whether the motive was
      pride, or sullenness, or distrust of herself, or despair of doing good,
      the result was not to be mistaken&mdash;Norah had resolved on remaining
      passive for the future.
    </p>
    <p>
      Later in the afternoon, Mr. Vanstone suggested a drive to his eldest
      daughter, as the best remedy for her headache. She readily consented to
      accompany her father; who thereupon proposed, as usual, that Magdalen
      should join them. Magdalen was nowhere to be found. For the second time
      that day she had wandered into the grounds by herself. On this occasion,
      Miss Garth&mdash;who, after adopting Norah&rsquo;s opinions, had passed from the
      one extreme of over-looking Frank altogether, to the other extreme of
      believing him capable of planning an elopement at five minutes&rsquo; notice&mdash;volunteered
      to set forth immediately, and do her best to find the missing young lady.
      After a prolonged absence, she returned unsuccessful&mdash;with the
      strongest persuasion in her own mind that Magdalen and Frank had secretly
      met one another somewhere, but without having discovered the smallest
      fragment of evidence to confirm her suspicions. By this time the carriage
      was at the door, and Mr. Vanstone was unwilling to wait any longer. He and
      Norah drove away together; and Mrs. Vanstone and Miss Garth sat at home
      over their work.
    </p>
    <p>
      In half an hour more, Magdalen composedly walked into the room. She was
      pale and depressed. She received Miss Garth&rsquo;s remonstrances with a weary
      inattention; explained carelessly that she had been wandering in the wood;
      took up some books, and put them down again; sighed impatiently, and went
      away upstairs to her own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think Magdalen is feeling the reaction, after yesterday,&rdquo; said Mrs.
      Vanstone, quietly. &ldquo;It is just as we thought. Now the theatrical
      amusements are all over, she is fretting for more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Here was an opportunity of letting in the light of truth on Mrs.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s mind, which was too favorable to be missed. Miss Garth
      questioned her conscience, saw her chance, and took it on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You forget,&rdquo; she rejoined, &ldquo;that a certain neighbor of ours is going away
      to-morrow. Shall I tell you the truth? Magdalen is fretting over the
      departure of Francis Clare.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone looked up from her work with a gentle, smiling surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely not?&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It is natural enough that Frank should be
      attracted by Magdalen; but I can&rsquo;t think that Magdalen returns the
      feeling. Frank is so very unlike her; so quiet and undemonstrative; so
      dull and helpless, poor fellow, in some things. He is handsome, I know,
      but he is so singularly unlike Magdalen, that I can&rsquo;t think it possible&mdash;I
      can&rsquo;t indeed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear good lady!&rdquo; cried Miss Garth, in great amazement; &ldquo;do you really
      suppose that people fall in love with each other on account of
      similarities in their characters? In the vast majority of cases, they do
      just the reverse. Men marry the very last women, and women the very last
      men, whom their friends would think it possible they could care about. Is
      there any phrase that is oftener on all our lips than &lsquo;What can have made
      Mr. So-and-So marry that woman?&rsquo;&mdash;or &lsquo;How could Mrs. So-and-So throw
      herself away on that man?&rsquo; Has all your experience of the world never yet
      shown you that girls take perverse fancies for men who are totally
      unworthy of them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very true,&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone, composedly. &ldquo;I forgot that. Still it
      seems unaccountable, doesn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Unaccountable, because it happens every day!&rdquo; retorted Miss Garth,
      good-humoredly. &ldquo;I know a great many excellent people who reason against
      plain experience in the same way&mdash;who read the newspapers in the
      morning, and deny in the evening that there is any romance for writers or
      painters to work upon in modern life. Seriously, Mrs. Vanstone, you may
      take my word for it&mdash;thanks to those wretched theatricals, Magdalen
      is going the way with Frank that a great many young ladies have gone
      before her. He is quite unworthy of her; he is, in almost every respect,
      her exact opposite&mdash;and, without knowing it herself, she has fallen
      in love with him on that very account. She is resolute and impetuous,
      clever and domineering; she is not one of those model women who want a man
      to look up to, and to protect them&mdash;her beau-ideal (though she may
      not think it herself) is a man she can henpeck. Well! one comfort is,
      there are far better men, even of that sort, to be had than Frank. It&rsquo;s a
      mercy he is going away, before we have more trouble with them, and before
      any serious mischief is done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Poor Frank!&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone, smiling compassionately. &ldquo;We have known
      him since he was in jackets, and Magdalen in short frocks. Don&rsquo;t let us
      give him up yet. He may do better this second time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth looked up in astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And suppose he does better?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;What then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone cut off a loose thread in her work, and laughed outright.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My good friend,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;there is an old farmyard proverb which warns
      us not to count our chickens before they are hatched. Let us wait a little
      before we count ours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was not easy to silence Miss Garth, when she was speaking under the
      influence of a strong conviction; but this reply closed her lips. She
      resumed her work, and looked, and thought, unutterable things.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s behavior was certainly remarkable under the circumstances.
      Here, on one side, was a girl&mdash;with great personal attractions, with
      rare pecuniary prospects, with a social position which might have
      justified the best gentleman in the neighborhood in making her an offer of
      marriage&mdash;perversely casting herself away on a penniless idle young
      fellow, who had failed at his first start in life, and who even if he
      succeeded in his second attempt, must be for years to come in no position
      to marry a young lady of fortune on equal terms. And there, on the other
      side, was that girl&rsquo;s mother, by no means dismayed at the prospect of a
      connection which was, to say the least of it, far from desirable; by no
      means certain, judging her by her own words and looks, that a marriage
      between Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughter and Mr. Clare&rsquo;s son might not prove to be
      as satisfactory a result of the intimacy between the two young people as
      the parents on both sides could possibly wish for!
    </p>
    <p>
      It was perplexing in the extreme. It was almost as unintelligible as that
      past mystery&mdash;that forgotten mystery now&mdash;of the journey to
      London.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the evening, Frank made his appearance, and announced that his father
      had mercilessly sentenced him to leave Combe-Raven by the parliamentary
      train the next morning. He mentioned this circumstance with an air of
      sentimental resignation; and listened to Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s boisterous
      rejoicings over his new prospects with a mild and mute surprise. His
      gentle melancholy of look and manner greatly assisted his personal
      advantages. In his own effeminate way he was more handsome than ever that
      evening. His soft brown eyes wandered about the room with a melting
      tenderness; his hair was beautifully brushed; his delicate hands hung over
      the arms of his chair with a languid grace. He looked like a convalescent
      Apollo. Never, on any previous occasion, had he practiced more
      successfully the social art which he habitually cultivated&mdash;the art
      of casting himself on society in the character of a well-bred Incubus, and
      conferring an obligation on his fellow-creatures by allowing them to sit
      under him. It was undeniably a dull evening. All the talking fell to the
      share of Mr. Vanstone and Miss Garth. Mrs. Vanstone was habitually silent;
      Norah kept herself obstinately in the background; Magdalen was quiet and
      undemonstrative beyond all former precedent. From first to last, she kept
      rigidly on her guard. The few meaning looks that she cast on Frank flashed
      at him like lightning, and were gone before any one else could see them.
      Even when she brought him his tea; and when, in doing so, her self-control
      gave way under the temptation which no woman can resist&mdash;the
      temptation of touching the man she loves&mdash;even then, she held the
      saucer so dexterously that it screened her hand. Frank&rsquo;s self-possession
      was far less steadily disciplined: it only lasted as long as he remained
      passive. When he rose to go; when he felt the warm, clinging pressure of
      Magdalen&rsquo;s fingers round his hand, and the lock of her hair which she
      slipped into it at the same moment, he became awkward and confused. He
      might have betrayed Magdalen and betrayed himself, but for Mr. Vanstone,
      who innocently covered his retreat by following him out, and patting him
      on the shoulder all the way. &ldquo;God bless you, Frank!&rdquo; cried the friendly
      voice that never had a harsh note in it for anybody. &ldquo;Your fortune&rsquo;s
      waiting for you. Go in, my boy&mdash;go in and win.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Frank. &ldquo;Thank you. It will be rather difficult to go in and
      win, at first. Of course, as you have always told me, a man&rsquo;s business is
      to conquer his difficulties, and not to talk about them. At the same time,
      I wish I didn&rsquo;t feel quite so loose as I do in my figures. It&rsquo;s
      discouraging to feel loose in one&rsquo;s figures.&mdash;Oh, yes; I&rsquo;ll write and
      tell you how I get on. I&rsquo;m very much obliged by your kindness, and very
      sorry I couldn&rsquo;t succeed with the engineering. I think I should have liked
      engineering better than trade. It can&rsquo;t be helped now, can it? Thank you,
      again. Good-by.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So he drifted away into the misty commercial future&mdash;as aimless, as
      helpless, as gentleman-like as ever.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IX.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THREE months passed. During that time Frank remained in London; pursuing
      his new duties, and writing occasionally to report himself to Mr.
      Vanstone, as he had promised.
    </p>
    <p>
      His letters were not enthusiastic on the subject of mercantile
      occupations. He described himself as being still painfully loose in his
      figures. He was also more firmly persuaded than ever&mdash;now when it was
      unfortunately too late&mdash;that he preferred engineering to trade. In
      spite of this conviction; in spite of headaches caused by sitting on a
      high stool and stooping over ledgers in unwholesome air; in spite of want
      of society, and hasty breakfasts, and bad dinners at chop-houses, his
      attendance at the office was regular, and his diligence at the desk
      unremitting. The head of the department in which he was working might be
      referred to if any corroboration of this statement was desired. Such was
      the general tenor of the letters; and Frank&rsquo;s correspondent and Frank&rsquo;s
      father differed over them as widely as usual. Mr. Vanstone accepted them
      as proofs of the steady development of industrious principles in the
      writer. Mr. Clare took his own characteristically opposite view. &ldquo;These
      London men,&rdquo; said the philosopher, &ldquo;are not to be trifled with by louts.
      They have got Frank by the scruff of the neck&mdash;he can&rsquo;t wriggle
      himself free&mdash;and he makes a merit of yielding to sheer necessity.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The three months&rsquo; interval of Frank&rsquo;s probation in London passed less
      cheerfully than usual in the household at Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the summer came nearer and nearer, Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s spirits, in spite of
      her resolute efforts to control them, became more and more depressed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do my best,&rdquo; she said to Miss Garth; &ldquo;I set an example of cheerfulness
      to my husband and my children&mdash;but I dread July.&rdquo; Norah&rsquo;s secret
      misgivings on her sister&rsquo;s account rendered her more than usually serious
      and uncommunicative, as the year advanced. Even Mr. Vanstone, when July
      drew nearer, lost something of his elasticity of spirit. He kept up
      appearances in his wife&rsquo;s presence&mdash;but on all other occasions there
      was now a perceptible shade of sadness in his look and manner. Magdalen
      was so changed since Frank&rsquo;s departure that she helped the general
      depression, instead of relieving it. All her movements had grown languid;
      all her usual occupations were pursued with the same weary indifference;
      she spent hours alone in her own room; she lost her interest in being
      brightly and prettily dressed; her eyes were heavy, her nerves were
      irritable, her complexion was altered visibly for the worse&mdash;in one
      word, she had become an oppression and a weariness to herself and to all
      about her. Stoutly as Miss Garth contended with these growing domestic
      difficulties, her own spirits suffered in the effort. Her memory reverted,
      oftener and oftener, to the March morning when the master and mistress of
      the house had departed for London, and then the first serious change, for
      many a year past, had stolen over the family atmosphere. When was that
      atmosphere to be clear again? When were the clouds of change to pass off
      before the returning sunshine of past and happier times?
    </p>
    <p>
      The spring and the early summer wore away. The dreaded month of July came,
      with its airless nights, its cloudless mornings, and its sultry days.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the fifteenth of the month, an event happened which took every one but
      Norah by surprise. For the second time, without the slightest apparent
      reason&mdash;for the second time, without a word of warning beforehand&mdash;Frank
      suddenly re-appeared at his father&rsquo;s cottage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare&rsquo;s lips opened to hail his son&rsquo;s return, in the old character of
      the &ldquo;bad shilling&rdquo;; and closed again without uttering a word. There was a
      portentous composure in Frank&rsquo;s manner which showed that he had other news
      to communicate than the news of his dismissal. He answered his father&rsquo;s
      sardonic look of inquiry by at once explaining that a very important
      proposal for his future benefit had been made to him, that morning, at the
      office. His first idea had been to communicate the details in writing; but
      the partners had, on reflection, thought that the necessary decision might
      be more readily obtained by a personal interview with his father and his
      friends. He had laid aside the pen accordingly, and had resigned himself
      to the railway on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      After this preliminary statement, Frank proceeded to describe the proposal
      which his employers had addressed to him, with every external appearance
      of viewing it in the light of an intolerable hardship.
    </p>
    <p>
      The great firm in the City had obviously made a discovery in relation to
      their clerk, exactly similar to the discovery which had formerly forced
      itself on the engineer in relation to his pupil. The young man, as they
      politely phrased it, stood in need of some special stimulant to stir him
      up. His employers (acting under a sense of their obligation to the
      gentleman by whom Frank had been recommended) had considered the question
      carefully, and had decided that the one promising use to which they could
      put Mr. Francis Clare was to send him forthwith into another quarter of
      the globe.
    </p>
    <p>
      As a consequence of this decision, it was now, therefore, proposed that he
      should enter the house of their correspondents in China; that he should
      remain there, familiarizing himself thoroughly on the spot with the tea
      trade and the silk trade for five years; and that he should return, at the
      expiration of this period, to the central establishment in London. If he
      made a fair use of his opportunities in China, he would come back, while
      still a young man, fit for a position of trust and emolument, and
      justified in looking forward, at no distant date, to a time when the House
      would assist him to start in business for himself. Such were the new
      prospects which&mdash;to adopt Mr. Clare&rsquo;s theory&mdash;now forced
      themselves on the ever-reluctant, ever-helpless and ever-ungrateful Frank.
      There was no time to be lost. The final answer was to be at the office on
      &ldquo;Monday, the twentieth&rdquo;: the correspondents in China were to be written to
      by the mail on that day; and Frank was to follow the letter by the next
      opportunity, or to resign his chance in favor of some more enterprising
      young man.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare&rsquo;s reception of this extraordinary news was startling in the
      extreme. The glorious prospect of his son&rsquo;s banishment to China appeared
      to turn his brain. The firm pedestal of his philosophy sank under him; the
      prejudices of society recovered their hold on his mind. He seized Frank by
      the arm, and actually accompanied him to Combe-Raven, in the amazing
      character of visitor to the house!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here I am with my lout,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare, before a word could be uttered
      by the astonished family. &ldquo;Hear his story, all of you. It has reconciled
      me, for the first time in my life, to the anomaly of his existence.&rdquo; Frank
      ruefully narrated the Chinese proposal for the second time, and attempted
      to attach to it his own supplementary statement of objections and
      difficulties. His father stopped him at the first word, pointed
      peremptorily southeastward (from Somersetshire to China); and said,
      without an instant&rsquo;s hesitation: &ldquo;Go!&rdquo; Mr. Vanstone, basking in golden
      visions of his young friend&rsquo;s future, echoed that monosyllabic decision
      with all his heart. Mrs. Vanstone, Miss Garth, even Norah herself, spoke
      to the same purpose. Frank was petrified by an absolute unanimity of
      opinion which he had not anticipated; and Magdalen was caught, for once in
      her life, at the end of all her resources.
    </p>
    <p>
      So far as practical results were concerned, the sitting of the family
      council began and ended with the general opinion that Frank must go. Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s faculties were so bewildered by the son&rsquo;s sudden arrival, the
      father&rsquo;s unexpected visit, and the news they both brought with them, that
      he petitioned for an adjournment before the necessary arrangements
      connected with his young friend&rsquo;s departure were considered in detail.
      &ldquo;Suppose we all sleep upon it?&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Tomorrow our heads will feel a
      little steadier; and to-morrow will be time enough to decide all
      uncertainties.&rdquo; This suggestion was readily adopted; and all further
      proceedings stood adjourned until the next day.
    </p>
    <p>
      That next day was destined to decide more uncertainties than Mr. Vanstone
      dreamed of.
    </p>
    <p>
      Early in the morning, after making tea by herself as usual, Miss Garth
      took her parasol and strolled into the garden. She had slept ill; and ten
      minutes in the open air before the family assembled at breakfast might
      help to compensate her, as she thought, for the loss of her night&rsquo;s rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      She wandered to the outermost boundary of the flower-garden, and then
      returned by another path, which led back, past the side of an ornamental
      summer-house commanding a view over the fields from a corner of the lawn.
      A slight noise&mdash;like, and yet not like, the chirruping of a bird&mdash;caught
      her ear as she approached the summer-house. She stepped round to the
      entrance; looked in; and discovered Magdalen and Frank seated close
      together. To Miss Garth&rsquo;s horror, Magdalen&rsquo;s arm was unmistakably round
      Frank&rsquo;s neck; and, worse still, the position of her face, at the moment of
      discovery, showed beyond all doubt that she had just been offering to the
      victim of Chinese commerce the first and foremost of all the consolations
      which a woman can bestow on a man. In plainer words, she had just given
      Frank a kiss.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the presence of such an emergency as now confronted her, Miss Garth
      felt instinctively that all ordinary phrases of reproof would be phrases
      thrown away.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I presume,&rdquo; she remarked, addressing Magdalen with the merciless
      self-possession of a middle-aged lady, unprovided for the occasion with
      any kissing remembrances of her own&mdash;&ldquo;I presume (whatever excuses
      your effrontery may suggest) you will not deny that my duty compels me to
      mention what I have just seen to your father?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will save you the trouble,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, composedly. &ldquo;I will
      mention it to him myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words, she looked round at Frank, standing trebly helpless in a
      corner of the summer-house. &ldquo;You shall hear what happens,&rdquo; she said, with
      her bright smile. &ldquo;And so shall you,&rdquo; she added for Miss Garth&rsquo;s especial
      benefit, as she sauntered past the governess on her way back to the
      breakfast-table. The eyes of Miss Garth followed her indignantly; and
      Frank slipped out on his side at that favorable opportunity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under these circumstances, there was but one course that any respectable
      woman could take&mdash;she could only shudder. Miss Garth registered her
      protest in that form, and returned to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      When breakfast was over, and when Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s hand descended to his
      pocket in search of his cigar-case, Magdalen rose; looked significantly at
      Miss Garth; and followed her father into the hall.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I want to speak to you this morning&mdash;in private.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay! ay!&rdquo; returned Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;What about, my dear!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;About&mdash;&rdquo; Magdalen hesitated, searching for a satisfactory form of
      expression, and found it. &ldquo;About business, papa,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone took his garden hat from the hall table&mdash;opened his eyes
      in mute perplexity&mdash;attempted to associate in his mind the two
      extravagantly dissimilar ideas of Magdalen and &ldquo;business&rdquo;&mdash;failed&mdash;and
      led the way resignedly into the garden.
    </p>
    <p>
      His daughter took his arm, and walked with him to a shady seat at a
      convenient distance from the house. She dusted the seat with her smart
      silk apron before her father occupied it. Mr. Vanstone was not accustomed
      to such an extraordinary act of attention as this. He sat down, looking
      more puzzled than ever. Magdalen immediately placed herself on his knee,
      and rested her head comfortably on his shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Am I heavy, papa?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, my dear, you are,&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone&mdash;&ldquo;but not too heavy for <i>me</i>.
      Stop on your perch, if you like it. Well? And what may this business
      happen to be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It begins with a question.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ah, indeed? That doesn&rsquo;t surprise me. Business with your sex, my dear,
      always begins with questions. Go on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa! do you ever intend allowing me to be married?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s eyes opened wider and wider. The question, to use his own
      phrase, completely staggered him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is business with a vengeance!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Why, Magdalen! what have
      you got in that harum-scarum head of yours now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t exactly know, papa. Will you answer my question?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will if I can, my dear; you rather stagger me. Well, I don&rsquo;t know. Yes;
      I suppose I must let you be married one of these days&mdash;if we can find
      a good husband for you. How hot your face is! Lift it up, and let the air
      blow over it. You won&rsquo;t? Well&mdash;have your own way. If talking of
      business means tickling your cheek against my whisker I&rsquo;ve nothing to say
      against it. Go on, my dear. What&rsquo;s the next question? Come to the point.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She was far too genuine a woman to do anything of the sort. She skirted
      round the point and calculated her distance to the nicety of a
      hair-breadth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We were all very much surprised yesterday&mdash;were we not, papa? Frank
      is wonderfully lucky, isn&rsquo;the?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s the luckiest dog I ever came across,&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone &ldquo;But what
      has that got to do with this business of yours? I dare say you see your
      way, Magdalen. Hang me if I can see mine!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She skirted a little nearer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose he will make his fortune in China?&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a long way
      off, isn&rsquo;t it? Did you observe, papa, that Frank looked sadly out of
      spirits yesterday?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was so surprised by the news,&rdquo; said Mr. Vanstone, &ldquo;and so staggered by
      the sight of old Clare&rsquo;s sharp nose in my house, that I didn&rsquo;t much
      notice. Now you remind me of it&mdash;yes. I don&rsquo;t think Frank took kindly
      to his own good luck; not kindly at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you wonder at that, papa?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, my dear; I do, rather.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you think it&rsquo;s hard to be sent away for five years, to make your
      fortune among hateful savages, and lose sight of your friends at home for
      all that long time? Don&rsquo;t you think Frank will miss <i>us</i> sadly? Don&rsquo;t
      you, papa?&mdash;don&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gently, Magdalen! I&rsquo;m a little too old for those long arms of yours to
      throttle me in fun.&mdash;You&rsquo;re right, my love. Nothing in this world
      without a drawback. Frank <i>will</i> miss his friends in England: there&rsquo;s
      no denying that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You always liked Frank. And Frank always liked you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, yes&mdash;a good fellow; a quiet, good fellow. Frank and I have
      always got on smoothly together.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have got on like father and son, haven&rsquo;t you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly, my dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps you will think it harder on him when he has gone than you think
      it now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Likely enough, Magdalen; I don&rsquo;t say no.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps you will wish he had stopped in England? Why shouldn&rsquo;t he stop in
      England, and do as well as if he went to China?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear! he has no prospects in England. I wish he had, for his own sake.
      I wish the lad well, with all my heart.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I wish him well too, papa&mdash;with all <i>my</i> heart?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly, my love&mdash;your old playfellow&mdash;why not? What&rsquo;s the
      matter? God bless my soul, what is the girl crying about? One would think
      Frank was transported for life. You goose! You know, as well as I do, he
      is going to China to make his fortune.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He doesn&rsquo;t want to make his fortune&mdash;he might do much better.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The deuce he might! How, I should like to know?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid to tell you. I&rsquo;m afraid you&rsquo;ll laugh at me. Will you promise
      not to laugh at me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anything to please you, my dear. Yes: I promise. Now, then, out with it!
      How might Frank do better?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He might marry Me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If the summer scene which then spread before Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s eyes had
      suddenly changed to a dreary winter view&mdash;if the trees had lost all
      their leaves, and the green fields had turned white with snow in an
      instant&mdash;his face could hardly have expressed greater amazement than
      it displayed when his daughter&rsquo;s faltering voice spoke those four last
      words. He tried to look at her&mdash;but she steadily refused him the
      opportunity: she kept her face hidden over his shoulder. Was she in
      earnest? His cheek, still wet with her tears, answered for her. There was
      a long pause of silence; she waited&mdash;with unaccustomed patience, she
      waited for him to speak. He roused himself, and spoke these words only:
      &ldquo;You surprise me, Magdalen; you surprise me more than I can say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At the altered tone of his voice&mdash;altered to a quiet, fatherly
      seriousness&mdash;Magdalen&rsquo;s arms clung round him closer than before.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have I disappointed you, papa?&rdquo; she asked, faintly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t say I have
      disappointed you! Who am I to tell my secret to, if not to you? Don&rsquo;t let
      him go&mdash;don&rsquo;t! don&rsquo;t! You will break his heart. He is afraid to tell
      his father; he is even afraid <i>you</i> might be angry with him. There is
      nobody to speak for us, except&mdash;except me. Oh, don&rsquo;t let him go!
      Don&rsquo;t for his sake&mdash;&rdquo; she whispered the next words in a kiss&mdash;&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
      for Mine!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her father&rsquo;s kind face saddened; he sighed, and patted her fair head
      tenderly. &ldquo;Hush, my love,&rdquo; he said, almost in a whisper; &ldquo;hush!&rdquo; She
      little knew what a revelation every word, every action that escaped her,
      now opened before him. She had made him her grown-up playfellow, from her
      childhood to that day. She had romped with him in her frocks, she had gone
      on romping with him in her gowns. He had never been long enough separated
      from her to have the external changes in his daughter forced on his
      attention. His artless, fatherly experience of her had taught him that she
      was a taller child in later years&mdash;and had taught him little more.
      And now, in one breathless instant, the conviction that she was a woman
      rushed over his mind. He felt it in the trouble of her bosom pressed
      against his; in the nervous thrill of her arms clasped around his neck.
      The Magdalen of his innocent experience, a woman&mdash;with the
      master-passion of her sex in possession of her heart already!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you thought long of this, my dear?&rdquo; he asked, as soon as he could
      speak composedly. &ldquo;Are you sure&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She answered the question before he could finish it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sure I love him?&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Oh, what words can say Yes for me, as I want
      to say it? I love him&mdash;!&rdquo; Her voice faltered softly; and her answer
      ended in a sigh.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are very young. You and Frank, my love, are both very young.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She raised her head from his shoulder for the first time. The thought and
      its expression flashed from her at the same moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are we much younger than you and mamma were?&rdquo; she asked, smiling through
      her tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      She tried to lay her head back in its old position; but as she spoke those
      words, her father caught her round the waist, forced her, before she was
      aware of it, to look him in the face&mdash;and kissed her, with a sudden
      outburst of tenderness which brought the tears thronging back thickly into
      her eyes. &ldquo;Not much younger, my child,&rdquo; he said, in low, broken tones&mdash;&ldquo;not
      much younger than your mother and I were.&rdquo; He put her away from him, and
      rose from the seat, and turned his head aside quickly. &ldquo;Wait here, and
      compose yourself; I will go indoors and speak to your mother.&rdquo; His voice
      trembled over those parting words; and he left her without once looking
      round again.
    </p>
    <p>
      She waited&mdash;waited a weary time; and he never came back. At last her
      growing anxiety urged her to follow him into the house. A new timidity
      throbbed in her heart as she doubtingly approached the door. Never had she
      seen the depths of her father&rsquo;s simple nature stirred as they had been
      stirred by her confession. She almost dreaded her next meeting with him.
      She wandered softly to and fro in the hall, with a shyness unaccountable
      to herself; with a terror of being discovered and spoken to by her sister
      or Miss Garth, which made her nervously susceptible to the slightest
      noises in the house. The door of the morning-room opened while her back
      was turned toward it. She started violently, as she looked round and saw
      her father in the hall: her heart beat faster and faster, and she felt
      herself turning pale. A second look at him, as he came nearer, re-assured
      her. He was composed again, though not so cheerful as usual. She noticed
      that he advanced and spoke to her with a forbearing gentleness, which was
      more like his manner to her mother than his ordinary manner to herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go in, my love,&rdquo; he said, opening the door for her which he had just
      closed. &ldquo;Tell your mother all you have told me&mdash;and more, if you have
      more to say. She is better prepared for you than I was. We will take
      to-day to think of it, Magdalen; and to-morrow you shall know, and Frank
      shall know, what we decide.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her eyes brightened, as they looked into his face and saw the decision
      there already, with the double penetration of her womanhood and her love.
      Happy, and beautiful in her happiness, she put his hand to her lips, and
      went, without hesitation, into the morning-room. There, her father&rsquo;s words
      had smoothed the way for her; there, the first shock of the surprise was
      past and over, and only the pleasure of it remained. Her mother had been
      her age once; her mother would know how fond she was of Frank. So the
      coming interview was anticipated in her thoughts; and&mdash;except that
      there was an unaccountable appearance of restraint in Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      first reception of her&mdash;was anticipated aright. After a little, the
      mother&rsquo;s questions came more and more unreservedly from the sweet,
      unforgotten experience of the mother&rsquo;s heart. She lived again through her
      own young days of hope and love in Magdalen&rsquo;s replies.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next morning the all-important decision was announced in words. Mr.
      Vanstone took his daughter upstairs into her mother&rsquo;s room, and there
      placed before her the result of the yesterday&rsquo;s consultation, and of the
      night&rsquo;s reflection which had followed it. He spoke with perfect kindness
      and self-possession of manner&mdash;but in fewer and more serious words than
      usual; and he held his wife&rsquo;s hand tenderly in his own all through the
      interview.
    </p>
    <p>
      He informed Magdalen that neither he nor her mother felt themselves
      justified in blaming her attachment to Frank. It had been in part,
      perhaps, the natural consequence of her childish familiarity with him; in
      part, also, the result of the closer intimacy between them which the
      theatrical entertainment had necessarily produced. At the same time, it
      was now the duty of her parents to put that attachment, on both sides, to
      a proper test&mdash;for her sake, because her happy future was their
      dearest care; for Frank&rsquo;s sake, because they were bound to give him the
      opportunity of showing himself worthy of the trust confided in him. They
      were both conscious of being strongly prejudiced in Frank&rsquo;s favor. His
      father&rsquo;s eccentric conduct had made the lad the object of their compassion
      and their care from his earliest years. He (and his younger brothers) had
      almost filled the places to them of those other children of their own whom
      they had lost. Although they firmly believed their good opinion of Frank
      to be well founded&mdash;still, in the interest of their daughter&rsquo;s
      happiness, it was necessary to put that opinion firmly to the proof, by
      fixing certain conditions, and by interposing a year of delay between the
      contemplated marriage and the present time.
    </p>
    <p>
      During that year, Frank was to remain at the office in London; his
      employers being informed beforehand that family circumstances prevented
      his accepting their offer of employment in China. He was to consider this
      concession as a recognition of the attachment between Magdalen and
      himself, on certain terms only. If, during the year of probation, he
      failed to justify the confidence placed in him&mdash;a confidence which
      had led Mr. Vanstone to take unreservedly upon himself the whole
      responsibility of Frank&rsquo;s future prospects&mdash;the marriage scheme was
      to be considered, from that moment, as at an end. If, on the other hand,
      the result to which Mr. Vanstone confidently looked forward really
      occurred&mdash;if Frank&rsquo;s probationary year proved his claim to the most
      precious trust that could be placed in his hands&mdash;then Magdalen
      herself should reward him with all that a woman can bestow; and the
      future, which his present employers had placed before him as the result of
      a five years&rsquo; residence in China, should be realized in one year&rsquo;s time,
      by the dowry of his young wife.
    </p>
    <p>
      As her father drew that picture of the future, the outburst of Magdalen&rsquo;s
      gratitude could no longer be restrained. She was deeply touched&mdash;she
      spoke from her inmost heart. Mr. Vanstone waited until his daughter and
      his wife were composed again; and then added the last words of explanation
      which were now left for him to speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You understand, my love,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;that I am not anticipating Frank&rsquo;s
      living in idleness on his wife&rsquo;s means? My plan for him is that he should
      still profit by the interest which his present employers take in him.
      Their knowledge of affairs in the City will soon place a good partnership
      at his disposal, and you will give him the money to buy it out of hand. I
      shall limit the sum, my dear, to half your fortune; and the other half I
      shall have settled upon yourself. We shall all be alive and hearty, I
      hope&rdquo;&mdash;he looked tenderly at his wife as he said those words&mdash;&ldquo;all
      alive and hearty at the year&rsquo;s end. But if I am gone, Magdalen, it will
      make no difference. My will&mdash;made long before I ever thought of
      having a son-in-law divides my fortune into two equal parts. One part goes
      to your mother; and the other part is fairly divided between my children.
      You will have your share on your wedding-day (and Norah will have hers
      when she marries) from my own hand, if I live; and under my will if I die.
      There! there! no gloomy faces,&rdquo; he said, with a momentary return of his
      every-day good spirits. &ldquo;Your mother and I mean to live and see Frank a
      great merchant. I shall leave you, my dear, to enlighten the son on our
      new projects, while I walk over to the cottage&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped; his eyebrows contracted a little; and he looked aside
      hesitatingly at Mrs. Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What must you do at the cottage, papa?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, after having
      vainly waited for him to finish the sentence of his own accord.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must consult Frank&rsquo;s father,&rdquo; he replied. &ldquo;We must not forget that Mr.
      Clare&rsquo;s consent is still wanting to settle this matter. And as time
      presses, and we don&rsquo;t know what difficulties he may not raise, the sooner
      I see him the better.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He gave that answer in low, altered tones; and rose from his chair in a
      half-reluctant, half-resigned manner, which Magdalen observed with secret
      alarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      She glanced inquiringly at her mother. To all appearance, Mrs. Vanstone
      had been alarmed by the change in him also. She looked anxious and uneasy;
      she turned her face away on the sofa pillow&mdash;turned it suddenly, as
      if she was in pain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you not well, mamma?&rdquo; asked Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite well, my love,&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone, shortly and sharply, without
      turning round. &ldquo;Leave me a little&mdash;I only want rest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen went out with her father.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Papa!&rdquo; she whispered anxiously, as they descended the stairs; &ldquo;you don&rsquo;t
      think Mr. Clare will say No?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t tell beforehand,&rdquo; answered Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;I hope he will say
      Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no reason why he should say anything else&mdash;is there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She put the question faintly, while he was getting his hat and stick; and
      he did not appear to hear her. Doubting whether she should repeat it or
      not, she accompanied him as far as the garden, on his way to Mr. Clare&rsquo;s
      cottage. He stopped her on the lawn, and sent her back to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have nothing on your head, my dear,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;If you want to be in
      the garden, don&rsquo;t forget how hot the sun is&mdash;don&rsquo;t come out without
      your hat.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He walked on toward the cottage.
    </p>
    <p>
      She waited a moment, and looked after him. She missed the customary
      flourish of his stick; she saw his little Scotch terrier, who had run out
      at his heels, barking and capering about him unnoticed. He was out of
      spirits: he was strangely out of spirits. What did it mean?
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER X.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ON returning to the house, Magdalen felt her shoulder suddenly touched
      from behind as she crossed the hall. She turned and confronted her sister.
      Before she could ask any questions, Norah confusedly addressed her, in
      these words: &ldquo;I beg your pardon; I beg you to forgive me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen looked at her sister in astonishment. All memory, on her side, of
      the sharp words which had passed between them in the shrubbery was lost in
      the new interests that now absorbed her; lost as completely as if the
      angry interview had never taken place. &ldquo;Forgive you!&rdquo; she repeated,
      amazedly. &ldquo;What for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have heard of your new prospects,&rdquo; pursued Norah, speaking with a
      mechanical submissiveness of manner which seemed almost ungracious; &ldquo;I
      wished to set things right between us; I wished to say I was sorry for
      what happened. Will you forget it? Will you forget and forgive what
      happened in the shrubbery?&rdquo; She tried to proceed; but her inveterate
      reserve&mdash;or, perhaps, her obstinate reliance on her own opinions&mdash;silenced
      her at those last words. Her face clouded over on a sudden. Before her
      sister could answer her, she turned away abruptly and ran upstairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      The door of the library opened, before Magdalen could follow her; and Miss
      Garth advanced to express the sentiments proper to the occasion.
    </p>
    <p>
      They were not the mechanically-submissive sentiments which Magdalen had
      just heard. Norah had struggled against her rooted distrust of Frank, in
      deference to the unanswerable decision of both her parents in his favor;
      and had suppressed the open expression of her antipathy, though the
      feeling itself remained unconquered. Miss Garth had made no such
      concession to the master and mistress of the house. She had hitherto held
      the position of a high authority on all domestic questions; and she flatly
      declined to get off her pedestal in deference to any change in the family
      circumstances, no matter how amazing or how unexpected that change might
      be.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray accept my congratulations,&rdquo; said Miss Garth, bristling all over with
      implied objections to Frank&mdash;&ldquo;my congratulations, <i>and</i> my
      apologies. When I caught you kissing Mr. Francis Clare in the
      summer-house, I had no idea you were engaged in carrying out the
      intentions of your parents. I offer no opinion on the subject. I merely
      regret my own accidental appearance in the character of an Obstacle to the
      course of true-love&mdash;which appears to run smooth in summer-houses,
      whatever Shakespeare may say to the contrary. Consider me for the future,
      if you please, as an Obstacle removed. May you be happy!&rdquo; Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      lips closed on that last sentence like a trap, and Miss Garth&rsquo;s eyes
      looked ominously prophetic into the matrimonial future.
    </p>
    <p>
      If Magdalen&rsquo;s anxieties had not been far too serious to allow her the
      customary free use of her tongue, she would have been ready on the instant
      with an appropriately satirical answer. As it was, Miss Garth simply
      irritated her. &ldquo;Pooh!&rdquo; she said&mdash;and ran upstairs to her sister&rsquo;s
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She knocked at the door, and there was no answer. She tried the door, and
      it resisted her from the inside. The sullen, unmanageable Norah was locked
      in.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under other circumstances, Magdalen would not have been satisfied with
      knocking&mdash;she would have called through the door loudly and more
      loudly, till the house was disturbed and she had carried her point. But
      the doubts and fears of the morning had unnerved her already. She went
      downstairs again softly, and took her hat from the stand in the hall. &ldquo;He
      told me to put my hat on,&rdquo; she said to herself, with a meek filial
      docility which was totally out of her character.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went into the garden, on the shrubbery side; and waited there to catch
      the first sight of her father on his return. Half an hour passed; forty
      minutes passed&mdash;and then his voice reached her from among the distant
      trees. &ldquo;Come in to heel!&rdquo; she heard him call out loudly to the dog. Her
      face turned pale. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s angry with Snap!&rdquo; she exclaimed to herself in a
      whisper. The next minute he appeared in view; walking rapidly, with his
      head down and Snap at his heels in disgrace. The sudden excess of her
      alarm as she observed those ominous signs of something wrong rallied her
      natural energy, and determined her desperately on knowing the worst. She
      walked straight forward to meet her father.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your face tells your news,&rdquo; she said faintly. &ldquo;Mr. Clare has been as
      heartless as usual&mdash;Mr. Clare has said No?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her father turned on her with a sudden severity, so entirely unparalleled
      in her experience of him that she started back in downright terror.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Magdalen!&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;whenever you speak of my old friend and neighbor
      again, bear this in mind: Mr. Clare has just laid me under an obligation
      which I shall remember gratefully to the end of my life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped suddenly after saying those remarkable words. Seeing that he
      had startled her, his natural kindness prompted him instantly to soften
      the reproof, and to end the suspense from which she was plainly suffering.
      &ldquo;Give me a kiss, my love,&rdquo; he resumed; &ldquo;and I&rsquo;ll tell you in return that
      Mr. Clare has said&mdash;YES.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She attempted to thank him; but the sudden luxury of relief was too much
      for her. She could only cling round his neck in silence. He felt her
      trembling from head to foot, and said a few words to calm her. At the
      altered tones of his master&rsquo;s voice, Snap&rsquo;s meek tail re-appeared fiercely
      from between his legs; and Snap&rsquo;s lungs modestly tested his position with
      a brief, experimental bark. The dog&rsquo;s quaintly appropriate assertion of
      himself on his old footing was the interruption of all others which was
      best fitted to restore Magdalen to herself. She caught the shaggy little
      terrier up in her arms and kissed <i>him</i> next. &ldquo;You darling,&rdquo; she
      exclaimed, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re almost as glad as I am!&rdquo; She turned again to her
      father, with a look of tender reproach. &ldquo;You frightened me, papa,&rdquo; she
      said. &ldquo;You were so unlike yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall be right again to-morrow, my dear. I am a little upset to-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not by me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By something you have heard at Mr. Clare&rsquo;s?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes&mdash;nothing you need alarm yourself about; nothing that won&rsquo;t wear
      off by to-morrow. Let me go now, my dear; I have a letter to write; and I
      want to speak to your mother.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left her and went on to the house. Magdalen lingered a little on the
      lawn, to feel all the happiness of her new sensations&mdash;then turned
      away toward the shrubbery to enjoy the higher luxury of communicating
      them. The dog followed her. She whistled, and clapped her hands. &ldquo;Find
      him!&rdquo; she said, with beaming eyes. &ldquo;Find Frank!&rdquo; Snap scampered into the
      shrubbery, with a bloodthirsty snarl at starting. Perhaps he had mistaken
      his young mistress and considered himself her emissary in search of a rat?
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, Mr. Vanstone entered the house. He met his wife slowly
      descending the stairs, and advanced to give her his arm. &ldquo;How has it
      ended?&rdquo; she asked, anxiously, as he led her to the sofa.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Happily&mdash;as we hoped it would,&rdquo; answered her husband. &ldquo;My old friend
      has justified my opinion of him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank God!&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone, fervently. &ldquo;Did you feel it, love?&rdquo; she
      asked, as her husband arranged the sofa pillows&mdash;&ldquo;did you feel it as
      painfully as I feared you would?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had a duty to do, my dear&mdash;and I did it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After replying in those terms, he hesitated. Apparently, he had something
      more to say&mdash;something, perhaps, on the subject of that passing
      uneasiness of mind which had been produced by his interview with Mr.
      Clare, and which Magdalen&rsquo;s questions had obliged him to acknowledge. A
      look at his wife decided his doubts in the negative. He only asked if she
      felt comfortable; and then turned away to leave the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must you go?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a letter to write, my dear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anything about Frank?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No: to-morrow will do for that. A letter to Mr. Pendril. I want him here
      immediately.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Business, I suppose?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, my dear&mdash;business.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He went out, and shut himself into the little front room, close to the
      hall door, which was called his study. By nature and habit the most
      procrastinating of letter-writers, he now inconsistently opened his desk
      and took up the pen without a moment&rsquo;s delay. His letter was long enough
      to occupy three pages of note-paper; it was written with a readiness of
      expression and a rapidity of hand which seldom characterized his
      proceedings when engaged over his ordinary correspondence. He wrote the
      address as follows: &ldquo;Immediate&mdash;William Pendril, Esq., Serle Street,
      Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn, London&rdquo;&mdash;then pushed the letter away from him, and sat
      at the table, drawing lines on the blotting-paper with his pen, lost in
      thought. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said to himself; &ldquo;I can do nothing more till Pendril
      comes.&rdquo; He rose; his face brightened as he put the stamp on the envelope.
      The writing of the letter had sensibly relieved him, and his whole bearing
      showed it as he left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the doorstep he found Norah and Miss Garth, setting forth together for
      a walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which way are you going?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;Anywhere near the post-office? I
      wish you would post this letter for me, Norah. It is very important&mdash;so
      important that I hardly like to trust it to Thomas, as usual.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah at once took charge of the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you look, my dear,&rdquo; continued her father, &ldquo;you will see that I am
      writing to Mr. Pendril. I expect him here to-morrow afternoon. Will you
      give the necessary directions, Miss Garth? Mr. Pendril will sleep here
      to-morrow night, and stay over Sunday.&mdash;Wait a minute! Today is
      Friday. Surely I had an engagement for Saturday afternoon?&rdquo; He consulted
      his pocketbook and read over one of the entries, with a look of annoyance.
      &ldquo;Grailsea Mill, three o&rsquo;clock, Saturday. Just the time when Pendril will
      be here; and I <i>must</i> be at home to see him. How can I manage it?
      Monday will be too late for my business at Grailsea. I&rsquo;ll go to-day,
      instead; and take my chance of catching the miller at his dinner-time.&rdquo; He
      looked at his watch. &ldquo;No time for driving; I must do it by railway. If I
      go at once, I shall catch the down train at our station, and get on to
      Grailsea. Take care of the letter, Norah. I won&rsquo;t keep dinner waiting; if
      the return train doesn&rsquo;t suit, I&rsquo;ll borrow a gig and get back in that
      way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As he took up his hat, Magdalen appeared at the door, returning from her
      interview with Frank. The hurry of her father&rsquo;s movements attracted her
      attention; and she asked him where he was going.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To Grailsea,&rdquo; replied Mr. Vanstone. &ldquo;Your business, Miss Magdalen, has
      got in the way of mine&mdash;and mine must give way to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He spoke those parting words in his old hearty manner; and left them, with
      the old characteristic flourish of his trusty stick.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My business!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I thought my business was done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth pointed significantly to the letter in Norah&rsquo;s hand. &ldquo;Your
      business, beyond all doubt,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Mr. Pendril is coming tomorrow;
      and Mr. Vanstone seems remarkably anxious about it. Law, and its attendant
      troubles already! Governesses who look in at summer-house doors are not
      the only obstacles to the course of true-love. Parchment is sometimes an
      obstacle. I hope you may find Parchment as pliable as I am&mdash;I wish
      you well through it. Now, Norah!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth&rsquo;s second shaft struck as harmless as the first. Magdalen had
      returned to the house, a little vexed; her interview with Frank having
      been interrupted by a messenger from Mr. Clare, sent to summon the son
      into the father&rsquo;s presence. Although it had been agreed at the private
      interview between Mr. Vanstone and Mr. Clare that the questions discussed
      that morning should not be communicated to the children until the year of
      probation was at an end&mdash;-and although under these circumstances Mr.
      Clare had nothing to tell Frank which Magdalen could not communicate to
      him much more agreeably&mdash;the philosopher was not the less resolved on
      personally informing his son of the parental concession which rescued him
      from Chinese exile. The result was a sudden summons to the cottage, which
      startled Magdalen, but which did not appear to take Frank by surprise. His
      filial experience penetrated the mystery of Mr. Clare&rsquo;s motives easily
      enough. &ldquo;When my father&rsquo;s in spirits,&rdquo; he said, sulkily, &ldquo;he likes to
      bully me about my good luck. This message means that he&rsquo;s going to bully
      me now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go,&rdquo; suggested Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must,&rdquo; rejoined Frank. &ldquo;I shall never hear the last of it if I don&rsquo;t.
      He&rsquo;s primed and loaded, and he means to go off. He went off, once, when
      the engineer took me; he went off, twice, when the office in the City took
      me; and he&rsquo;s going off, thrice, now <i>you&rsquo;ve</i> taken me. If it wasn&rsquo;t
      for you, I should wish I had never been born. Yes; your father&rsquo;s been kind
      to me, I know&mdash;and I should have gone to China, if it hadn&rsquo;t been for
      him. I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;m very much obliged. Of course, we have no right to expect
      anything else&mdash;still it&rsquo;s discouraging to keep us waiting a year,
      isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen stopped his mouth by a summary process, to which even Frank
      submitted gratefully. At the same time, she did not forget to set down his
      discontent to the right side. &ldquo;How fond he is of me!&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;A
      year&rsquo;s waiting is quite a hardship to him.&rdquo; She returned to the house,
      secretly regretting that she had not heard more of Frank&rsquo;s complimentary
      complaints. Miss Garth&rsquo;s elaborate satire, addressed to her while she was
      in this frame of mind, was a purely gratuitous waste of Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      breath. What did Magdalen care for satire? What do Youth and Love ever
      care for except themselves? She never even said as much as &ldquo;Pooh!&rdquo; this
      time. She laid aside her hat in serene silence, and sauntered languidly
      into the morning-room to keep her mother company. She lunched on dire
      forebodings of a quarrel between Frank and his father, with accidental
      interruptions in the shape of cold chicken and cheese-cakes. She trifled
      away half an hour at the piano; and played, in that time, selections from
      the Songs of Mendelssohn, the Mazurkas of Chopin, the Operas of Verdi, and
      the Sonatas of Mozart&mdash;all of whom had combined together on this
      occasion and produced one immortal work, entitled &ldquo;Frank.&rdquo; She closed the
      piano and went up to her room, to dream away the hours luxuriously in
      visions of her married future. The green shutters were closed, the
      easy-chair was pushed in front of the glass, the maid was summoned as
      usual; and the comb assisted the mistress&rsquo;s reflections, through the
      medium of the mistress&rsquo;s hair, till heat and idleness asserted their
      narcotic influences together, and Magdalen fell asleep.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was past three o&rsquo;clock when she woke. On going downstairs again she
      found her mother, Norah and Miss Garth all sitting together enjoying the
      shade and the coolness under the open portico in front of the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah had the railway time-table in her hand. They had been discussing the
      chances of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s catching the return train and getting back in
      good time. That topic had led them, next, to his business errand at
      Grailsea&mdash;an errand of kindness, as usual; undertaken for the benefit
      of the miller, who had been his old farm-servant, and who was now hard
      pressed by serious pecuniary difficulties. From this they had glided
      insensibly into a subject often repeated among them, and never exhausted
      by repetition&mdash;the praise of Mr. Vanstone himself. Each one of the
      three had some experience of her own to relate of his simple, generous
      nature. The conversation seemed to be almost painfully interesting to his
      wife. She was too near the time of her trial now not to feel nervously
      sensitive to the one subject which always held the foremost place in her
      heart. Her eyes overflowed as Magdalen joined the little group under the
      portico; her frail hand trembled as it signed to her youngest daughter to
      take the vacant chair by her side. &ldquo;We were talking of your father,&rdquo; she
      said, softly. &ldquo;Oh, my love, if your married life is only as happy&mdash;&rdquo;
       Her voice failed her; she put her handkerchief hurriedly over her face and
      rested her head on Magdalen&rsquo;s shoulder. Norah looked appealingly to Miss
      Garth, who at once led the conversation back to the more trivial subject
      of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s return. &ldquo;We have all been wondering,&rdquo; she said, with a
      significant look at Magdalen, &ldquo;whether your father will leave Grailsea in
      time to catch the train&mdash;or whether he will miss it and be obliged to
      drive back. What do you say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I say, papa will miss the train,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, taking Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      hint with her customary quickness. &ldquo;The last thing he attends to at
      Grailsea will be the business that brings him there. Whenever he has
      business to do, he always puts it off to the last moment, doesn&rsquo;t he,
      mamma?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The question roused her mother exactly as Magdalen had intended it should.
      &ldquo;Not when his errand is an errand of kindness,&rdquo; said Mrs. Vanstone. &ldquo;He
      has gone to help the miller in a very pressing difficulty&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And don&rsquo;t you know what he&rsquo;ll do?&rdquo; persisted Magdalen. &ldquo;He&rsquo;ll romp with
      the miller&rsquo;s children, and gossip with the mother, and hob-and-nob with
      the father. At the last moment when he has got five minutes left to catch
      the train, he&rsquo;ll say: &lsquo;Let&rsquo;s go into the counting-house and look at the
      books.&rsquo; He&rsquo;ll find the books dreadfully complicated; he&rsquo;ll suggest sending
      for an accountant; he&rsquo;ll settle the business off hand, by lending the
      money in the meantime; he&rsquo;ll jog back comfortably in the miller&rsquo;s gig; and
      he&rsquo;ll tell us all how pleasant the lanes were in the cool of the evening.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The little character-sketch which these words drew was too faithful a
      likeness not to be recognized. Mrs. Vanstone showed her appreciation of it
      by a smile. &ldquo;When your father returns,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;we will put your
      account of his proceedings to the test. I think,&rdquo; she continued, rising
      languidly from her chair, &ldquo;I had better go indoors again now and rest on
      the sofa till he comes back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The little group under the portico broke up. Magdalen slipped away into
      the garden to hear Frank&rsquo;s account of the interview with his father. The
      other three ladies entered the house together. When Mrs. Vanstone was
      comfortably established on the sofa, Norah and Miss Garth left her to
      repose, and withdrew to the library to look over the last parcel of books
      from London.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a quiet, cloudless summer&rsquo;s day. The heat was tempered by a light
      western breeze; the voices of laborers at work in a field near reached the
      house cheerfully; the clock-bell of the village church as it struck the
      quarters floated down the wind with a clearer ring, a louder melody than
      usual. Sweet odors from field and flower-garden, stealing in at the open
      windows, filled the house with their fragrance; and the birds in Norah&rsquo;s
      aviary upstairs sang the song of their happiness exultingly in the sun.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the church clock struck the quarter past four, the morning-room door
      opened; and Mrs. Vanstone crossed the hall alone. She had tried vainly to
      compose herself. She was too restless to lie still and sleep. For a moment
      she directed her steps toward the portico&mdash;then turned, and looked
      about her, doubtful where to go, or what to do next. While she was still
      hesitating, the half-open door of her husband&rsquo;s study attracted her
      attention. The room seemed to be in sad confusion. Drawers were left open;
      coats and hats, account-books and papers, pipes and fishing-rods were all
      scattered about together. She went in, and pushed the door to&mdash;but so
      gently that she still left it ajar. &ldquo;It will amuse me to put his room to
      rights,&rdquo; she thought to herself. &ldquo;I should like to do something for him
      before I am down on my bed, helpless.&rdquo; She began to arrange his drawers,
      and found his banker&rsquo;s book lying open in one of them. &ldquo;My poor dear, how
      careless he is! The servants might have seen all his affairs, if I had not
      happened to have looked in.&rdquo; She set the drawers right; and then turned to
      the multifarious litter on a side-table. A little old-fashioned music-book
      appeared among the scattered papers, with her name written in it, in faded
      ink. She blushed like a young girl in the first happiness of the
      discovery. &ldquo;How good he is to me! He remembers my poor old music-book, and
      keeps it for my sake.&rdquo; As she sat down by the table and opened the book,
      the bygone time came back to her in all its tenderness. The clock struck
      the half-hour, struck the three-quarters&mdash;and still she sat there,
      with the music-book on her lap, dreaming happily over the old songs;
      thinking gratefully of the golden days when his hand had turned the pages
      for her, when his voice had whispered the words which no woman&rsquo;s memory
      ever forgets.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah roused herself from the volume she was reading, and glanced at the
      clock on the library mantel-piece.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If papa comes back by the railway,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;he will be here in ten
      minutes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth started, and looked up drowsily from the book which was just
      dropping out of her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think he will come by train,&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;He will jog back&mdash;as
      Magdalen flippantly expressed it&mdash;in the miller&rsquo;s gig.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As she said the words, there was a knock at the library door. The footman
      appeared, and addressed himself to Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A person wishes to see you, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who is it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know, ma&rsquo;am. A stranger to me&mdash;a respectable-looking man&mdash;and
      he said he particularly wished to see you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth went out into the hall. The footman closed the library door
      after her, and withdrew down the kitchen stairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      The man stood just inside the door, on the mat. His eyes wandered, his
      face was pale&mdash;he looked ill; he looked frightened. He trifled
      nervously with his cap, and shifted it backward and forward, from one hand
      to the other.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You wanted to see me?&rdquo; said Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon, ma&rsquo;am.&mdash;You are not Mrs. Vanstone, are you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not. I am Miss Garth. Why do you ask the question?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am employed in the clerk&rsquo;s office at Grailsea Station&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sent here&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped again. His wandering eyes looked down at the mat, and his
      restless hands wrung his cap harder and harder. He moistened his dry lips,
      and tried once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sent here on a very serious errand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serious to <i>me</i>?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serious to all in this house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth took one step nearer to him&mdash;took one steady look at his
      face. She turned cold in the summer heat. &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; she said, with a sudden
      distrust, and glanced aside anxiously at the door of the morning-room. It
      was safely closed. &ldquo;Tell me the worst; and don&rsquo;t speak loud. There has
      been an accident. Where?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the railway. Close to Grailsea Station.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The up-train to London?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No: the down-train at one-fifty&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God Almighty help us! The train Mr. Vanstone traveled by to Grailsea?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The same. I was sent here by the up-train; the line was just cleared in
      time for it. They wouldn&rsquo;t write&mdash;they said I must see &lsquo;Miss Garth,&rsquo;
      and tell her. There are seven passengers badly hurt; and two&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next word failed on his lips; he raised his hand in the dead silence.
      With eyes that opened wide in horror, he raised his hand and pointed over
      Miss Garth&rsquo;s shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned a little, and looked back.
    </p>
    <p>
      Face to face with her, on the threshold of the study door, stood the
      mistress of the house. She held her old music-book clutched fast
      mechanically in both hands. She stood, the specter of herself. With a
      dreadful vacancy in her eyes, with a dreadful stillness in her voice, she
      repeated the man&rsquo;s last words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Seven passengers badly hurt; and two&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her tortured fingers relaxed their hold; the book dropped from them; she
      sank forward heavily. Miss Garth caught her before she fell&mdash;caught
      her, and turned upon the man, with the wife&rsquo;s swooning body in her arms,
      to hear the husband&rsquo;s fate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The harm is done,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;you may speak out. Is he wounded, or dead?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dead.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XI.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE sun sank lower; the western breeze floated cool and fresh into the
      house. As the evening advanced, the cheerful ring of the village clock
      came nearer and nearer. Field and flower-garden felt the influence of the
      hour, and shed their sweetest fragrance. The birds in Norah&rsquo;s aviary
      sunned themselves in the evening stillness, and sang their farewell
      gratitude to the dying day.
    </p>
    <p>
      Staggered in its progress for a time only, the pitiless routine of the
      house went horribly on its daily way. The panic-stricken servants took
      their blind refuge in the duties proper to the hour. The footman softly
      laid the table for dinner. The maid sat waiting in senseless doubt, with
      the hot-water jugs for the bedrooms ranged near her in their customary
      row. The gardener, who had been ordered to come to his master, with
      vouchers for money that he had paid in excess of his instructions, said
      his character was dear to him, and left the vouchers at his appointed
      time. Custom that never yields, and Death that never spares, met on the
      wreck of human happiness&mdash;and Death gave way.
    </p>
    <p>
      Heavily the thunder-clouds of Affliction had gathered over the house&mdash;heavily,
      but not at their darkest yet. At five, that evening, the shock of the
      calamity had struck its blow. Before another hour had passed, the
      disclosure of the husband&rsquo;s sudden death was followed by the suspense of
      the wife&rsquo;s mortal peril. She lay helpless on her widowed bed; her own
      life, and the life of her unborn child, trembling in the balance.
    </p>
    <p>
      But one mind still held possession of its resources&mdash;but one guiding
      spirit now moved helpfully in the house of mourning.
    </p>
    <p>
      If Miss Garth&rsquo;s early days had been passed as calmly and as happily as her
      later life at Combe-Raven, she might have sunk under the cruel necessities
      of the time. But the governess&rsquo;s youth had been tried in the ordeal of
      family affliction; and she met her terrible duties with the steady courage
      of a woman who had learned to suffer. Alone, she had faced the trial of
      telling the daughters that they were fatherless. Alone, she now struggled
      to sustain them, when the dreadful certainty of their bereavement was at
      last impressed on their minds.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her least anxiety was for the elder sister. The agony of Norah&rsquo;s grief had
      forced its way outward to the natural relief of tears. It was not so with
      Magdalen. Tearless and speechless, she sat in the room where the
      revelation of her father&rsquo;s death had first reached her; her face,
      unnaturally petrified by the sterile sorrow of old age&mdash;a white,
      changeless blank, fearful to look at. Nothing roused, nothing melted her.
      She only said, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t speak to me; don&rsquo;t touch me. Let me bear it by
      myself&rdquo;&mdash;and fell silent again. The first great grief which had
      darkened the sisters&rsquo; lives had, as it seemed, changed their everyday
      characters already.
    </p>
    <p>
      The twilight fell, and faded; and the summer night came brightly. As the
      first carefully shaded light was kindled in the sick-room, the physician,
      who had been summoned from Bristol, arrived to consult with the medical
      attendant of the family. He could give no comfort: he could only say, &ldquo;We
      must try, and hope. The shock which struck her, when she overheard the
      news of her husband&rsquo;s death, has prostrated her strength at the time when
      she needed it most. No effort to preserve her shall be neglected. I will
      stay here for the night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He opened one of the windows to admit more air as he spoke. The view
      overlooked the drive in front of the house and the road outside. Little
      groups of people were standing before the lodge-gates, looking in. &ldquo;If
      those persons make any noise,&rdquo; said the doctor, &ldquo;they must be warned
      away.&rdquo; There was no need to warn them: they were only the laborers who had
      worked on the dead man&rsquo;s property, and here and there some women and
      children from the village. They were all thinking of him&mdash;some
      talking of him&mdash;and it quickened their sluggish minds to look at his
      house. The gentlefolks thereabouts were mostly kind to them (the men
      said), but none like <i>him</i>. The women whispered to each other of his
      comforting ways when he came into their cottages. &ldquo;He was a cheerful man,
      poor soul; and thoughtful of us, too: he never came in and stared at
      meal-times; the rest of &lsquo;em help us, and scold us&mdash;all <i>he</i> ever
      said was, better luck next time.&rdquo; So they stood and talked of him, and
      looked at his house and grounds and moved off clumsily by twos and threes,
      with the dim sense that the sight of his pleasant face would never comfort
      them again. The dullest head among them knew, that night, that the hard
      ways of poverty would be all the harder to walk on, now he was gone.
    </p>
    <p>
      A little later, news was brought to the bed-chamber door that old Mr.
      Clare had come alone to the house, and was waiting in the hall below, to
      hear what the physician said. Miss Garth was not able to go down to him
      herself: she sent a message. He said to the servant, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll come and ask
      again, in two hours&rsquo; time&rdquo;&mdash;and went out slowly. Unlike other men in
      all things else, the sudden death of his old friend had produced no
      discernible change in him. The feeling implied in the errand of inquiry
      that had brought him to the house was the one betrayal of human sympathy
      which escaped the rugged, impenetrable old man.
    </p>
    <p>
      He came again, when the two hours had expired; and this time Miss Garth
      saw him.
    </p>
    <p>
      They shook hands in silence. She waited; she nerved herself to hear him
      speak of his lost friend. No: he never mentioned the dreadful accident, he
      never alluded to the dreadful death. He said these words, &ldquo;Is she better,
      or worse?&rdquo; and said no more. Was the tribute of his grief for the husband
      sternly suppressed under the expression of his anxiety for the wife? The
      nature of the man, unpliably antagonistic to the world and the world&rsquo;s
      customs, might justify some such interpretation of his conduct as this. He
      repeated his question, &ldquo;Is she better, or worse?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth answered him:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No better; if there is any change, it is a change for the worse.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They spoke those words at the window of the morning-room which opened on
      the garden. Mr. Clare paused, after hearing the reply to his inquiry,
      stepped out on to the walk, then turned on a sudden, and spoke again:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has the doctor given her up?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He has not concealed from us that she is in danger. We can only pray for
      her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The old man laid his hand on Miss Garth&rsquo;s arm as she answered him, and
      looked her attentively in the face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You believe in prayer?&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth drew sorrowfully back from him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You might have spared me that question sir, at such a time as this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He took no notice of her answer; his eyes were still fastened on her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Pray as you never prayed before, for the preservation of
      Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left her. His voice and manner implied some unutterable dread of the
      future, which his words had not confessed. Miss Garth followed him into
      the garden, and called to him. He heard her, but he never turned back: he
      quickened his pace, as if he desired to avoid her. She watched him across
      the lawn in the warm summer moonlight. She saw his white, withered hands,
      saw them suddenly against the black background of the shrubbery, raised
      and wrung above his head. They dropped&mdash;the trees shrouded him in
      darkness&mdash;he was gone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth went back to the suffering woman, with the burden on her mind
      of one anxiety more.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was then past eleven o&rsquo;clock. Some little time had elapsed since she
      had seen the sisters and spoken to them. The inquiries she addressed to
      one of the female servants only elicited the information that they were
      both in their rooms. She delayed her return to the mother&rsquo;s bedside to say
      her parting words of comfort to the daughters, before she left them for
      the night. Norah&rsquo;s room was the nearest. She softly opened the door and
      looked in. The kneeling figure by the bedside told her that God&rsquo;s help had
      found the fatherless daughter in her affliction. Grateful tears gathered
      in her eyes as she looked: she softly closed the door, and went on to
      Magdalen&rsquo;s room. There doubt stayed her feet at the threshold, and she
      waited for a moment before going in.
    </p>
    <p>
      A sound in the room caught her ear&mdash;the monotonous rustling of a
      woman&rsquo;s dress, now distant, now near; passing without cessation from end
      to end over the floor&mdash;a sound which told her that Magdalen was
      pacing to and fro in the secrecy of her own chamber. Miss Garth knocked.
      The rustling ceased; the door was opened, and the sad young face
      confronted her, locked in its cold despair; the large light eyes looked
      mechanically into hers, as vacant and as tearless as ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      That look wrung the heart of the faithful woman, who had trained her and
      loved her from a child. She took Magdalen tenderly in her arms.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, my love,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;no tears yet! Oh, if I could see you as I have
      seen Norah! Speak to me, Magdalen&mdash;try if you can speak to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She tried, and spoke:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;feels no remorse. He was not serving Norah&rsquo;s interests
      when he went to his death: he was serving mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that terrible answer, she put her cold lips to Miss Garth&rsquo;s cheek.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me bear it by myself,&rdquo; she said, and gently closed the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Again Miss Garth waited at the threshold, and again the sound of the
      rustling dress passed to and fro&mdash;now far, now near&mdash;to and fro
      with a cruel, mechanical regularity, that chilled the warmest sympathy,
      and daunted the boldest hope.
    </p>
    <p>
      The night passed. It had been agreed, if no change for the better showed
      itself by the morning, that the London physician whom Mrs. Vanstone had
      consulted some months since should be summoned to the house on the next
      day. No change for the better appeared, and the physician was sent for.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the morning advanced, Frank came to make inquiries from the cottage.
      Had Mr. Clare intrusted to his son the duty which he had personally
      performed on the previous day through reluctance to meet Miss Garth again
      after what he had said to her? It might be so. Frank could throw no light
      on the subject; he was not in his father&rsquo;s confidence. He looked pale and
      bewildered. His first inquiries after Magdalen showed how his weak nature
      had been shaken by the catastrophe. He was not capable of framing his own
      questions: the words faltered on his lips, and the ready tears came into
      his eyes. Miss Garth&rsquo;s heart warmed to him for the first time. Grief has
      this that is noble in it&mdash;it accepts all sympathy, come whence it
      may. She encouraged the lad by a few kind words, and took his hand at
      parting.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before noon Frank returned with a second message. His father desired to
      know whether Mr. Pendril was not expected at Combe-Raven on that day. If
      the lawyer&rsquo;s arrival was looked for, Frank was directed to be in
      attendance at the station, and to take him to the cottage, where a bed
      would be placed at his disposal. This message took Miss Garth by surprise.
      It showed that Mr. Clare had been made acquainted with his dead friend&rsquo;s
      purpose of sending for Mr. Pendril. Was the old man&rsquo;s thoughtful offer of
      hospitality another indirect expression of the natural human distress
      which he perversely concealed? or was he aware of some secret necessity
      for Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s presence, of which the bereaved family had been kept in
      total ignorance? Miss Garth was too heart-sick and hopeless to dwell on
      either question. She told Frank that Mr. Pendril had been expected at
      three o&rsquo;clock, and sent him back with her thanks.
    </p>
    <p>
      Shortly after his departure, such anxieties on Magdalen&rsquo;s account as her
      mind was now able to feel were relieved by better news than her last
      night&rsquo;s experience had inclined her to hope for. Norah&rsquo;s influence had
      been exerted to rouse her sister; and Norah&rsquo;s patient sympathy had set the
      prisoned grief free. Magdalen had suffered severely&mdash;suffered
      inevitably, with such a nature as hers&mdash;in the effort that relieved
      her. The healing tears had not come gently; they had burst from her with a
      torturing, passionate vehemence&mdash;but Norah had never left her till
      the struggle was over, and the calm had come. These better tidings
      encouraged Miss Garth to withdraw to her own room, and to take the rest
      which she needed sorely. Worn out in body and mind, she slept from sheer
      exhaustion&mdash;slept heavily and dreamless for some hours. It was
      between three and four in the afternoon when she was roused by one of the
      female servants. The woman had a note in her hand&mdash;a note left by Mr.
      Clare the younger, with a message desiring that it might be delivered to
      Miss Garth immediately. The name written in the lower corner of the
      envelope was &ldquo;William Pendril.&rdquo; The lawyer had arrived.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth opened the note. After a few first sentences of sympathy and
      condolence, the writer announced his arrival at Mr. Clare&rsquo;s; and then
      proceeded, apparently in his professional capacity, to make a very
      startling request.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If,&rdquo; he wrote, &ldquo;any change for the better in Mrs. Vanstone should take
      place&mdash;whether it is only an improvement for the time, or whether it
      is the permanent improvement for which we all hope&mdash;in either case I
      entreat you to let me know of it immediately. It is of the last importance
      that I should see her, in the event of her gaining strength enough to give
      me her attention for five minutes, and of her being able at the expiration
      of that time to sign her name. May I beg that you will communicate my
      request, in the strictest confidence, to the medical men in attendance?
      They will understand, and you will understand, the vital importance I
      attach to this interview when I tell you that I have arranged to defer to
      it all other business claims on me; and that I hold myself in readiness to
      obey your summons at any hour of the day or night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In those terms the letter ended. Miss Garth read it twice over. At the
      second reading the request which the lawyer now addressed to her, and the
      farewell words which had escaped Mr. Clare&rsquo;s lips the day before,
      connected themselves vaguely in her mind. There was some other serious
      interest in suspense, known to Mr. Pendril and known to Mr. Clare, besides
      the first and foremost interest of Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s recovery. Whom did it
      affect? The children? Were they threatened by some new calamity which
      their mother&rsquo;s signature might avert? What did it mean? Did it mean that
      Mr. Vanstone had died without leaving a will?
    </p>
    <p>
      In her distress and confusion of mind Miss Garth was incapable of
      reasoning with herself, as she might have reasoned at a happier time. She
      hastened to the antechamber of Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s room; and, after explaining
      Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s position toward the family, placed his letter in the hands
      of the medical men. They both answered, without hesitation, to the same
      purpose. Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s condition rendered any such interview as the
      lawyer desired a total impossibility. If she rallied from her present
      prostration, Miss Garth should be at once informed of the improvement. In
      the meantime, the answer to Mr. Pendril might be conveyed in one word&mdash;Impossible.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see what importance Mr. Pendril attaches to the interview?&rdquo; said Miss
      Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      Yes: both the doctors saw it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My mind is lost and confused, gentlemen, in this dreadful suspense. Can
      you either of you guess why the signature is wanted? or what the object of
      the interview may be? I have only seen Mr. Pendril when he has come here
      on former visits: I have no claim to justify me in questioning him. Will
      you look at the letter again? Do you think it implies that Mr. Vanstone
      has never made a will?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think it can hardly imply that,&rdquo; said one of the doctors. &ldquo;But, even
      supposing Mr. Vanstone to have died intestate, the law takes due care of
      the interests of his widow and his children&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would it do so,&rdquo; interposed the other medical man, &ldquo;if the property
      happened to be in land?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not sure in that case. Do you happen to know, Miss Garth, whether
      Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s property was in money or in land?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In money,&rdquo; replied Miss Garth. &ldquo;I have heard him say so on more than one
      occasion.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I can relieve your mind by speaking from my own experience. The law,
      if he has died intestate, gives a third of his property to his widow, and
      divides the rest equally among his children.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But if Mrs. Vanstone&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If Mrs. Vanstone should die,&rdquo; pursued the doctor, completing the question
      which Miss Garth had not the heart to conclude for herself, &ldquo;I believe I
      am right in telling you that the property would, as a matter of legal
      course, go to the children. Whatever necessity there may be for the
      interview which Mr. Pendril requests, I can see no reason for connecting
      it with the question of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s presumed intestacy. But, by all
      means, put the question, for the satisfaction of your own mind, to Mr.
      Pendril himself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth withdrew to take the course which the doctor advised. After
      communicating to Mr. Pendril the medical decision which, thus far, refused
      him the interview that he sought, she added a brief statement of the legal
      question she had put to the doctors; and hinted delicately at her natural
      anxiety to be informed of the motives which had led the lawyer to make his
      request. The answer she received was guarded in the extreme: it did not
      impress her with a favorable opinion of Mr. Pendril. He confirmed the
      doctors&rsquo; interpretation of the law in general terms only; expressed his
      intention of waiting at the cottage in the hope that a change for the
      better might yet enable Mrs. Vanstone to see him; and closed his letter
      without the slightest explanation of his motives, and without a word of
      reference to the question of the existence, or the non-existence, of Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s will.
    </p>
    <p>
      The marked caution of the lawyer&rsquo;s reply dwelt uneasily on Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      mind, until the long-expected event of the day recalled all her thoughts
      to her one absorbing anxiety on Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s account.
    </p>
    <p>
      Early in the evening the physician from London arrived. He watched long by
      the bedside of the suffering woman; he remained longer still in
      consultation with his medical brethren; he went back again to the
      sick-room, before Miss Garth could prevail on him to communicate to her
      the opinion at which he had arrived.
    </p>
    <p>
      When he called out into the antechamber for the second time, he silently
      took a chair by her side. She looked in his face; and the last faint hope
      died in her before he opened his lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must speak the hard truth,&rdquo; he said, gently. &ldquo;All that <i>can</i> be
      done <i>has</i> been done. The next four-and-twenty hours, at most, will
      end your suspense. If Nature makes no effort in that time&mdash;I grieve
      to say it&mdash;you must prepare yourself for the worst.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Those words said all: they were prophetic of the end.
    </p>
    <p>
      The night passed; and she lived through it. The next day came; and she
      lingered on till the clock pointed to five. At that hour the tidings of
      her husband&rsquo;s death had dealt the mortal blow. When the hour came round
      again, the mercy of God let her go to him in the better world. Her
      daughters were kneeling at the bedside as her spirit passed away. She left
      them unconscious of their presence; mercifully and happily insensible to
      the pang of the last farewell.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her child survived her till the evening was on the wane and the sunset was
      dim in the quiet western heaven. As the darkness came, the light of the
      frail little life&mdash;faint and feeble from the first&mdash;flickered
      and went out. All that was earthly of mother and child lay, that night, on
      the same bed. The Angel of Death had done his awful bidding; and the two
      Sisters were left alone in the world.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      EARLIER than usual on the morning of Thursday, the twenty-third of July,
      Mr. Clare appeared at the door of his cottage, and stepped out into the
      little strip of garden attached to his residence.
    </p>
    <p>
      After he had taken a few turns backward and forward, alone, he was joined
      by a spare, quiet, gray-haired man, whose personal appearance was totally
      devoid of marked character of any kind; whose inexpressive face and
      conventionally-quiet manner presented nothing that attracted approval and
      nothing that inspired dislike. This was Mr. Pendril&mdash;this was the man
      on whose lips hung the future of the orphans at Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The time is getting on,&rdquo; he said, looking toward the shrubbery, as he
      joined Mr. Clare.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My appointment with Miss Garth is for eleven o&rsquo;clock: it only wants ten
      minutes of the hour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you to see her alone?&rdquo; asked Mr. Clare.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I left Miss Garth to decide&mdash;after warning her, first of all, that
      the circumstances I am compelled to disclose are of a very serious
      nature.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And <i>has</i> she decided?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She writes me word that she mentioned my appointment, and repeated the
      warning I had given her to both the daughters. The elder of the two
      shrinks&mdash;and who can wonder at it?&mdash;from any discussion
      connected with the future which requires her presence so soon as the day
      after the funeral. The younger one appears to have expressed no opinion on
      the subject. As I understand it, she suffers herself to be passively
      guided by her sister&rsquo;s example. My interview, therefore, will take place
      with Miss Garth alone&mdash;and it is a very great relief to me to know
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He spoke the last words with more emphasis and energy than seemed habitual
      to him. Mr. Clare stopped, and looked at his guest attentively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are almost as old as I am, sir,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Has all your long
      experience as a lawyer not hardened you yet?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I never knew how little it had hardened me,&rdquo; replied Mr. Pendril,
      quietly, &ldquo;until I returned from London yesterday to attend the funeral. I
      was not warned that the daughters had resolved on following their parents
      to the grave. I think their presence made the closing scene of this
      dreadful calamity doubly painful, and doubly touching. You saw how the
      great concourse of people were moved by it&mdash;and <i>they</i> were in
      ignorance of the truth; <i>they</i> knew nothing of the cruel necessity
      which takes me to the house this morning. The sense of that necessity&mdash;and
      the sight of those poor girls at the time when I felt my hard duty toward
      them most painfully&mdash;shook me, as a man of my years and my way of
      life is not often shaken by any distress in the present or any suspense in
      the future. I have not recovered it this morning: I hardly feel sure of
      myself yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A man&rsquo;s composure&mdash;when he is a man like you&mdash;comes with the
      necessity for it,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare. &ldquo;You must have had duties to perform as
      trying in their way as the duty that lies before you this morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril shook his head. &ldquo;Many duties as serious; many stories more
      romantic. No duty so trying, no story so hopeless, as this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words they parted. Mr. Pendril left the garden for the
      shrubbery path which led to Combe-Raven. Mr. Clare returned to the
      cottage.
    </p>
    <p>
      On reaching the passage, he looked through the open door of his little
      parlor and saw Frank sitting there in idle wretchedness, with his head
      resting wearily on his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have had an answer from your employers in London,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare. &ldquo;In
      consideration of what has happened, they will allow the offer they made
      you to stand over for another month.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Frank changed color, and rose nervously from his chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are my prospects altered?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;Are Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s plans for me not
      to be carried out? He told Magdalen his will had provided for her. She
      repeated his words to me; she said I ought to know all that his goodness
      and generosity had done for both of us. How can his death make a change?
      Has anything happened?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait till Mr. Pendril comes back from Combe-Raven,&rdquo; said his father.
      &ldquo;Question him&mdash;don&rsquo;t question me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The ready tears rose in Frank&rsquo;s eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You won&rsquo;t be hard on me?&rdquo; he pleaded, faintly. &ldquo;You won&rsquo;t expect me to go
      back to London without seeing Magdalen first?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare looked thoughtfully at his son, and considered a little before
      he replied.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may dry your eyes,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You shall see Magdalen before you go
      back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left the room, after making that reply, and withdrew to his study. The
      books lay ready to his hand as usual. He opened one of them and set
      himself to read in the customary manner. But his attention wandered; and
      his eyes strayed away, from time to time, to the empty chair opposite&mdash;the
      chair in which his old friend and gossip had sat and wrangled with him
      good-humoredly for many and many a year past. After a struggle with
      himself he closed the book. &ldquo;D&mdash;n the chair!&rdquo; he said: &ldquo;it <i>will</i>
      talk of him; and I must listen.&rdquo; He reached down his pipe from the wall
      and mechanically filled it with tobacco. His hand shook, his eyes wandered
      back to the old place; and a heavy sigh came from him unwillingly. That
      empty chair was the only earthly argument for which he had no answer: his
      heart owned its defeat and moistened his eyes in spite of him. &ldquo;He has got
      the better of me at last,&rdquo; said the rugged old man. &ldquo;There is one weak
      place left in me still&mdash;and <i>he</i> has found it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile, Mr. Pendril entered the shrubbery, and followed the path which
      led to the lonely garden and the desolate house. He was met at the door by
      the man-servant, who was apparently waiting in expectation of his arrival.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have an appointment with Miss Garth. Is she ready to see me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite ready, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is she alone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the room which was Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s study?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In that room, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The servant opened the door and Mr. Pendril went in.
    </p>
    <p>
      The governess stood alone at the study window. The morning was
      oppressively hot, and she threw up the lower sash to admit more air into
      the room, as Mr. Pendril entered it.
    </p>
    <p>
      They bowed to each other with a formal politeness, which betrayed on
      either side an uneasy sense of restraint. Mr. Pendril was one of the many
      men who appear superficially to the worst advantage, under the influence
      of strong mental agitation which it is necessary for them to control. Miss
      Garth, on her side, had not forgotten the ungraciously guarded terms in
      which the lawyer had replied to her letter; and the natural anxiety which
      she had felt on the subject of the interview was not relieved by any
      favorable opinion of the man who sought it. As they confronted each other
      in the silence of the summer&rsquo;s morning&mdash;both dressed in black; Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s hard features, gaunt and haggard with grief; the lawyer&rsquo;s cold,
      colorless face, void of all marked expression, suggestive of a business
      embarrassment and of nothing more&mdash;it would have been hard to find
      two persons less attractive externally to any ordinary sympathies than the
      two who had now met together, the one to tell, the other to hear, the
      secrets of the dead.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sincerely sorry, Miss Garth, to intrude on you at such a time as
      this. But circumstances, as I have already explained, leave me no other
      choice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you take a seat, Mr. Pendril? You wished to see me in this room, I
      believe?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only in this room, because Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s papers are kept here, and I may
      find it necessary to refer to some of them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After that formal interchange of question and answer, they sat down on
      either side of a table placed close under the window. One waited to speak,
      the other waited to hear. There was a momentary silence. Mr. Pendril broke
      it by referring to the young ladies, with the customary expressions of
      sympathy. Miss Garth answered him with the same ceremony, in the same
      conventional tone. There was a second pause of silence. The humming of
      flies among the evergreen shrubs under the window penetrated drowsily into
      the room; and the tramp of a heavy-footed cart-horse, plodding along the
      high-road beyond the garden, was as plainly audible in the stillness as if
      it had been night.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lawyer roused his flagging resolution, and spoke to the purpose when
      he spoke next.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have some reason, Miss Garth,&rdquo; he began, &ldquo;to feel not quite satisfied
      with my past conduct toward you, in one particular. During Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      fatal illness, you addressed a letter to me, making certain inquiries;
      which, while she lived, it was impossible for me to answer. Her deplorable
      death releases me from the restraint which I had imposed on myself, and
      permits&mdash;or, more properly, obliges me to speak. You shall know what
      serious reasons I had for waiting day and night in the hope of obtaining
      that interview which unhappily never took place; and in justice to Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s memory, your own eyes shall inform you that he made his will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He rose; unlocked a little iron safe in the corner of the room; and
      returned to the table with some folded sheets of paper, which he spread
      open under Miss Garth&rsquo;s eyes. When she had read the first words, &ldquo;In the
      name of God, Amen,&rdquo; he turned the sheet, and pointed to the end of the
      next page. She saw the well-known signature: &ldquo;Andrew Vanstone.&rdquo; She saw
      the customary attestations of the two witnesses; and the date of the
      document, reverting to a period of more than five years since. Having thus
      convinced her of the formality of the will, the lawyer interposed before
      she could question him, and addressed her in these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must not deceive you,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I have my own reasons for producing
      this document.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What reasons, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall hear them. When you are in possession of the truth, these pages
      may help to preserve your respect for Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s memory&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth started back in her chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo; she asked, with a stern straightforwardness.
    </p>
    <p>
      He took no heed of the question; he went on as if she had not interrupted
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a second reason,&rdquo; he continued, &ldquo;for showing you the will. If I
      can prevail on you to read certain clauses in it, under my
      superintendence, you will make your own discovery of the circumstances
      which I am here to disclose&mdash;circumstances so painful that I hardly
      know how to communicate them to you with my own lips.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth looked him steadfastly in the face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Circumstances, sir, which affect the dead parents, or the living
      children?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which affect the dead and the living both,&rdquo; answered the lawyer.
      &ldquo;Circumstances, I grieve to say, which involve the future of Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s unhappy daughters.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait,&rdquo; said Miss Garth, &ldquo;wait a little.&rdquo; She pushed her gray hair back
      from her temples, and struggled with the sickness of heart, the dreadful
      faintness of terror, which would have overpowered a younger or a less
      resolute woman. Her eyes, dim with watching, weary with grief, searched
      the lawyer&rsquo;s unfathomable face. &ldquo;His unhappy daughters?&rdquo; she repeated to
      herself, vacantly. &ldquo;He talks as if there was some worse calamity than the
      calamity which has made them orphans.&rdquo; She paused once more; and rallied
      her sinking courage. &ldquo;I will not make your hard duty, sir, more painful to
      you than I can help,&rdquo; she resumed. &ldquo;Show me the place in the will. Let me
      read it, and know the worst.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril turned back to the first page, and pointed to a certain place
      in the cramped lines of writing. &ldquo;Begin here,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      She tried to begin; she tried to follow his finger, as she had followed it
      already to the signatures and the dates. But her senses seemed to share
      the confusion of her mind&mdash;the words mingled together, and the lines
      swam before her eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t follow you,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You must tell it, or read it to me.&rdquo; She
      pushed her chair back from the table, and tried to collect herself.
      &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; she exclaimed, as the lawyer, with visible hesitation and
      reluctance, took the papers in his own hand. &ldquo;One question, first. Does
      his will provide for his children?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His will provided for them, when he made it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When he made it!&rdquo; (Something of her natural bluntness broke out in her
      manner as she repeated the answer.) &ldquo;Does it provide for them now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It does not.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She snatched the will from his hand, and threw it into a corner of the
      room. &ldquo;You mean well,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;you wish to spare me&mdash;but you are
      wasting your time, and my strength. If the will is useless, there let it
      lie. Tell me the truth, Mr. Pendril&mdash;tell it plainly, tell it
      instantly, in your own words!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He felt that it would be useless cruelty to resist that appeal. There was
      no merciful alternative but to answer it on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must refer you to the spring of the present year, Miss Garth. Do you
      remember the fourth of March?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her attention wandered again; a thought seemed to have struck her at the
      moment when he spoke. Instead of answering his inquiry, she put a question
      of her own.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me break the news to myself,&rdquo; she said&mdash;&ldquo;let me anticipate you,
      if I can. His useless will, the terms in which you speak of his daughters,
      the doubt you seem to feel of my continued respect for his memory, have
      opened a new view to me. Mr. Vanstone has died a ruined man&mdash;is that
      what you had to tell me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Far from it. Mr. Vanstone has died, leaving a fortune of more than eighty
      thousand pounds&mdash;a fortune invested in excellent securities. He lived
      up to his income, but never beyond it; and all his debts added together
      would not reach two hundred pounds. If he had died a ruined man, I should
      have felt deeply for his children: but I should not have hesitated to tell
      you the truth, as I am hesitating now. Let me repeat a question which
      escaped you, I think, when I first put it. Carry your mind back to the
      spring of this year. Do you remember the fourth of March?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth shook her head. &ldquo;My memory for dates is bad at the best of
      times,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I am too confused to exert it at a moment&rsquo;s notice. Can
      you put your question in no other form?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He put it in this form:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you remember any domestic event in the spring of the present year
      which appeared to affect Mr. Vanstone more seriously than usual?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth leaned forward in her chair, and looked eagerly at Mr. Pendril
      across the table. &ldquo;The journey to London!&rdquo; she exclaimed. &ldquo;I distrusted
      the journey to London from the first! Yes! I remember Mr. Vanstone
      receiving a letter&mdash;I remember his reading it, and looking so altered
      from himself that he startled us all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you notice any apparent understanding between Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone
      on the subject of that letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes: I did. One of the girls&mdash;it was Magdalen&mdash;mentioned the
      post-mark; some place in America. It all comes back to me, Mr. Pendril.
      Mrs. Vanstone looked excited and anxious, the moment she heard the place
      named. They went to London together the next day; they explained nothing
      to their daughters, nothing to me. Mrs. Vanstone said the journey was for
      family affairs. I suspected something wrong; I couldn&rsquo;t tell what. Mrs.
      Vanstone wrote to me from London, saying that her object was to consult a
      physician on the state of her health, and not to alarm her daughters by
      telling them. Something in the letter rather hurt me at the time. I
      thought there might be some other motive that she was keeping from me. Did
      I do her wrong?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did her no wrong. There was a motive which she was keeping from you.
      In revealing that motive, I reveal the painful secret which brings me to
      this house. All that I could do to prepare you, I have done. Let me now
      tell the truth in the plainest and fewest words. When Mr. and Mrs.
      Vanstone left Combe-Raven, in the March of the present year&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before he could complete the sentence, a sudden movement of Miss Garth&rsquo;s
      interrupted him. She started violently, and looked round toward the
      window. &ldquo;Only the wind among the leaves,&rdquo; she said, faintly. &ldquo;My nerves
      are so shaken, the least thing startles me. Speak out, for God&rsquo;s sake!
      When Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone left this house, tell me in plain words, why
      did they go to London?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In plain words, Mr. Pendril told her:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They went to London to be married.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that answer he placed a slip of paper on the table. It was the
      marriage certificate of the dead parents, and the date it bore was March
      the twentieth, eighteen hundred and forty-six.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth neither moved nor spoke. The certificate lay beneath her
      unnoticed. She sat with her eyes rooted on the lawyer&rsquo;s face; her mind
      stunned, her senses helpless. He saw that all his efforts to break the
      shock of the discovery had been efforts made in vain; he felt the vital
      importance of rousing her, and firmly and distinctly repeated the fatal
      words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They went to London to be married,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Try to rouse yourself: try
      to realize the plain fact first: the explanation shall come afterward.
      Miss Garth, I speak the miserable truth! In the spring of this year they
      left home; they lived in London for a fortnight, in the strictest
      retirement; they were married by license at the end of that time. There is
      a copy of the certificate, which I myself obtained on Monday last. Read
      the date of the marriage for yourself. It is Friday, the twentieth of
      March&mdash;the March of this present year.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As he pointed to the certificate, that faint breath of air among the
      shrubs beneath the window, which had startled Miss Garth, stirred the
      leaves once more. He heard it himself this time, and turned his face, so
      as to let the breeze play upon it. No breeze came; no breath of air that
      was strong enough for him to feel, floated into the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth roused herself mechanically, and read the certificate. It
      seemed to produce no distinct impression on her: she laid it on one side
      in a lost, bewildered manner. &ldquo;Twelve years,&rdquo; she said, in low, hopeless
      tones&mdash;&ldquo;twelve quiet, happy years I lived with this family. Mrs.
      Vanstone was my friend; my dear, valued friend&mdash;my sister, I might
      almost say. I can&rsquo;t believe it. Bear with me a little, sir, I can&rsquo;t
      believe it yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall help you to believe it when I tell you more,&rdquo; said Mr. Pendril&mdash;&ldquo;you
      will understand me better when I take you back to the time of Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s early life. I won&rsquo;t ask for your attention just yet. Let us
      wait a little, until you recover yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They waited a few minutes. The lawyer took some letters from his pocket,
      referred to them attentively, and put them back again. &ldquo;Can you listen to
      me, now?&rdquo; he asked, kindly. She bowed her head in answer. Mr. Pendril
      considered with himself for a moment, &ldquo;I must caution you on one point,&rdquo;
       he said. &ldquo;If the aspect of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s character which I am now about
      to present to you seems in some respects at variance with your later
      experience, bear in mind that, when you first knew him twelve years since,
      he was a man of forty; and that, when I first knew him, he was a lad of
      nineteen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His next words raised the veil, and showed the irrevocable Past.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XIII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      &ldquo;THE fortune which Mr. Vanstone possessed when you knew him&rdquo; (the lawyer
      began) &ldquo;was part, and part only, of the inheritance which fell to him on
      his father&rsquo;s death. Mr. Vanstone the elder was a manufacturer in the North
      of England. He married early in life; and the children of the marriage
      were either six or seven in number&mdash;I am not certain which. First,
      Michael, the eldest son, still living, and now an old man turned seventy.
      Secondly, Selina, the eldest daughter, who married in after-life, and who
      died ten or eleven years ago. After those two came other sons and
      daughters, whose early deaths make it unnecessary to mention them
      particularly. The last and by many years the youngest of the children was
      Andrew, whom I first knew, as I told you, at the age of nineteen. My
      father was then on the point of retiring from the active pursuit of his
      profession; and in succeeding to his business, I also succeeded to his
      connection with the Vanstones as the family solicitor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At that time, Andrew had just started in life by entering the army. After
      little more than a year of home-service, he was ordered out with his
      regiment to Canada. When he quitted England, he left his father and his
      elder brother Michael seriously at variance. I need not detain you by
      entering into the cause of the quarrel. I need only tell you that the
      elder Mr. Vanstone, with many excellent qualities, was a man of fierce and
      intractable temper. His eldest son had set him at defiance, under
      circumstances which might have justly irritated a father of far milder
      character; and he declared, in the most positive terms, that he would
      never see Michael&rsquo;s face again. In defiance of my entreaties, and of the
      entreaties of his wife, he tore up, in our presence, the will which
      provided for Michael&rsquo;s share in the paternal inheritance. Such was the
      family position, when the younger son left home for Canada.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Some months after Andrew&rsquo;s arrival with his regiment at Quebec, he became
      acquainted with a woman of great personal attractions, who came, or said
      she came, from one of the Southern States of America. She obtained an
      immediate influence over him; and she used it to the basest purpose. You
      knew the easy, affectionate, trusting nature of the man in later life&mdash;you
      can imagine how thoughtlessly he acted on the impulse of his youth. It is
      useless to dwell on this lamentable part of the story. He was just
      twenty-one: he was blindly devoted to a worthless woman; and she led him
      on, with merciless cunning, till it was too late to draw back. In one
      word, he committed the fatal error of his life: he married her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She had been wise enough in her own interests to dread the influence of
      his brother-officers, and to persuade him, up to the period of the
      marriage ceremony, to keep the proposed union between them a secret. She
      could do this; but she could not provide against the results of accident.
      Hardly three months had passed, when a chance disclosure exposed the life
      she had led before her marriage. But one alternative was left to her
      husband&mdash;the alternative of instantly separating from her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The effect of the discovery on the unhappy boy&mdash;for a boy in
      disposition he still was&mdash;may be judged by the event which followed
      the exposure. One of Andrew&rsquo;s superior officers&mdash;a certain Major
      Kirke, if I remember right&mdash;found him in his quarters, writing to his
      father a confession of the disgraceful truth, with a loaded pistol by his
      side. That officer saved the lad&rsquo;s life from his own hand, and hushed up
      the scandalous affair by a compromise. The marriage being a perfectly
      legal one, and the wife&rsquo;s misconduct prior to the ceremony giving her
      husband no claim to his release from her by divorce, it was only possible
      to appeal to her sense of her own interests. A handsome annual allowance
      was secured to her, on condition that she returned to the place from which
      she had come; that she never appeared in England; and that she ceased to
      use her husband&rsquo;s name. Other stipulations were added to these. She
      accepted them all; and measures were privately taken to have her well
      looked after in the place of her retreat. What life she led there, and
      whether she performed all the conditions imposed on her, I cannot say. I
      can only tell you that she never, to my knowledge, came to England; that
      she never annoyed Mr. Vanstone; and that the annual allowance was paid
      her, through a local agent in America, to the day of her death. All that
      she wanted in marrying him was money; and money she got.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the meantime, Andrew had left the regiment. Nothing would induce him
      to face his brother-officers after what had happened. He sold out and
      returned to England. The first intelligence which reached him on his
      return was the intelligence of his father&rsquo;s death. He came to my office in
      London, before going home, and there learned from my lips how the family
      quarrel had ended.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The will which Mr. Vanstone the elder had destroyed in my presence had
      not been, so far as I know, replaced by another. When I was sent for, in
      the usual course, on his death, I fully expected that the law would be
      left to make the customary division among his widow and his children. To
      my surprise, a will appeared among his papers, correctly drawn and
      executed, and dated about a week after the period when the first will had
      been destroyed. He had maintained his vindictive purpose against his
      eldest son, and had applied to a stranger for the professional assistance
      which I honestly believe he was ashamed to ask for at my hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is needless to trouble you with the provisions of the will in detail.
      There were the widow and three surviving children to be provided for. The
      widow received a life-interest only in a portion of the testator&rsquo;s
      property. The remaining portion was divided between Andrew and Selina&mdash;two-thirds
      to the brother; one-third to the sister. On the mother&rsquo;s death, the money
      from which her income had been derived was to go to Andrew and Selina, in
      the same relative proportions as before&mdash;five thousand pounds having
      been first deducted from the sum and paid to Michael, as the sole legacy
      left by the implacable father to his eldest son.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Speaking in round numbers, the division of property, as settled by the
      will, stood thus. Before the mother&rsquo;s death, Andrew had seventy thousand
      pounds; Selina had thirty-five thousand pounds; Michael&mdash;had nothing.
      After the mother&rsquo;s death, Michael had five thousand pounds, to set against
      Andrew&rsquo;s inheritance augmented to one hundred thousand, and Selina&rsquo;s
      inheritance increased to fifty thousand.&mdash;Do not suppose that I am
      dwelling unnecessarily on this part of the subject. Every word I now speak
      bears on interests still in suspense, which vitally concern Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      daughters. As we get on from past to present, keep in mind the terrible
      inequality of Michael&rsquo;s inheritance and Andrew&rsquo;s inheritance. The harm
      done by that vindictive will is, I greatly fear, not over yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Andrew&rsquo;s first impulse, when he heard the news which I had to tell him,
      was worthy of the open, generous nature of the man. He at once proposed to
      divide his inheritance with his elder brother. But there was one serious
      obstacle in the way. A letter from Michael was waiting for him at my
      office when he came there, and that letter charged him with being the
      original cause of estrangement between his father and his elder brother.
      The efforts which he had made&mdash;bluntly and incautiously, I own, but
      with the purest and kindest intentions, as I know&mdash;to compose the
      quarrel before leaving home, were perverted, by the vilest
      misconstruction, to support an accusation of treachery and falsehood which
      would have stung any man to the quick. Andrew felt, what I felt, that if
      these imputations were not withdrawn before his generous intentions toward
      his brother took effect, the mere fact of their execution would amount to
      a practical acknowledgment of the justice of Michael&rsquo;s charge against him.
      He wrote to his brother in the most forbearing terms. The answer received
      was as offensive as words could make it. Michael had inherited his
      father&rsquo;s temper, unredeemed by his father&rsquo;s better qualities: his second
      letter reiterated the charges contained in the first, and declared that he
      would only accept the offered division as an act of atonement and
      restitution on Andrew&rsquo;s part. I next wrote to the mother to use her
      influence. She was herself aggrieved at being left with nothing more than
      a life interest in her husband&rsquo;s property; she sided resolutely with
      Michael; and she stigmatized Andrew&rsquo;s proposal as an attempt to bribe her
      eldest son into withdrawing a charge against his brother which that
      brother knew to be true. After this last repulse, nothing more could be
      done. Michael withdrew to the Continent; and his mother followed him
      there. She lived long enough, and saved money enough out of her income, to
      add considerably, at her death, to her elder son&rsquo;s five thousand pounds.
      He had previously still further improved his pecuniary position by an
      advantageous marriage; and he is now passing the close of his days either
      in France or Switzerland&mdash;a widower, with one son. We shall return to
      him shortly. In the meantime, I need only tell you that Andrew and Michael
      never again met&mdash;never again communicated, even by writing. To all
      intents and purposes they were dead to each other, from those early days
      to the present time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You can now estimate what Andrew&rsquo;s position was when he left his
      profession and returned to England. Possessed of a fortune, he was alone
      in the world; his future destroyed at the fair outset of life; his mother
      and brother estranged from him; his sister lately married, with interests
      and hopes in which he had no share. Men of firmer mental caliber might
      have found refuge from such a situation as this in an absorbing
      intellectual pursuit. He was not capable of the effort; all the strength
      of his character lay in the affections he had wasted. His place in the
      world was that quiet place at home, with wife and children to make his
      life happy, which he had lost forever. To look back was more than he dare.
      To look forward was more than he could. In sheer despair, he let his own
      impetuous youth drive him on; and cast himself into the lowest
      dissipations of a London life.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A woman&rsquo;s falsehood had driven him to his ruin. A woman&rsquo;s love saved him
      at the outset of his downward career. Let us not speak of her harshly&mdash;for
      we laid her with him yesterday in the grave.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You, who only knew Mrs. Vanstone in later life, when illness and sorrow
      and secret care had altered and saddened her, can form no adequate idea of
      her attractions of person and character when she was a girl of seventeen.
      I was with Andrew when he first met her. I had tried to rescue him, for
      one night at least, from degrading associates and degrading pleasures, by
      persuading him to go with me to a ball given by one of the great City
      Companies. There they met. She produced a strong impression on him the
      moment he saw her. To me, as to him, she was a total stranger. An
      introduction to her, obtained in the customary manner, informed him that
      she was the daughter of one Mr. Blake. The rest he discovered from
      herself. They were partners in the dance (unobserved in that crowded
      ball-room) all through the evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Circumstances were against her from the first. She was unhappy at home.
      Her family and friends occupied no recognized station in life: they were
      mean, underhand people, in every way unworthy of her. It was her first
      ball&mdash;it was the first time she had ever met with a man who had the
      breeding, the manners and the conversation of a gentleman. Are these
      excuses for her, which I have no right to make? If we have any human
      feeling for human weakness, surely not!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The meeting of that night decided their future. When other meetings had
      followed, when the confession of her love had escaped her, he took the one
      course of all others (took it innocently and unconsciously), which was
      most dangerous to them both. His frankness and his sense of honor forbade
      him to deceive her: he opened his heart and told her the truth. She was a
      generous, impulsive girl; she had no home ties strong enough to plead with
      her; she was passionately fond of him&mdash;and he had made that appeal to
      her pity which, to the eternal honor of women, is the hardest of all
      appeals for them to resist. She saw, and saw truly, that she alone stood
      between him and his ruin. The last chance of his rescue hung on her
      decision. She decided; and saved him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me not be misunderstood; let me not be accused of trifling with the
      serious social question on which my narrative forces me to touch. I will
      defend her memory by no false reasoning&mdash;I will only speak the truth.
      It is the truth that she snatched him from mad excesses which must have
      ended in his early death. It is the truth that she restored him to that
      happy home existence which you remember so tenderly&mdash;which <i>he</i>
      remembered so gratefully that, on the day when he was free, he made her
      his wife. Let strict morality claim its right, and condemn her early
      fault. I have read my New Testament to little purpose, indeed, if
      Christian mercy may not soften the hard sentence against her&mdash;if
      Christian charity may not find a plea for her memory in the love and
      fidelity, the suffering and the sacrifice, of her whole life.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A few words more will bring us to a later time, and to events which have
      happened within your own experience.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I need not remind you that the position in which Mr. Vanstone was now
      placed could lead in the end to but one result&mdash;to a disclosure, more
      or less inevitable, of the truth. Attempts were made to keep the hopeless
      misfortune of his life a secret from Miss Blake&rsquo;s family; and, as a matter
      of course, those attempts failed before the relentless scrutiny of her
      father and her friends. What might have happened if her relatives had been
      what is termed &lsquo;respectable&rsquo; I cannot pretend to say. As it was, they were
      people who could (in the common phrase) be conveniently treated with. The
      only survivor of the family at the present time is a scoundrel calling
      himself Captain Wragge. When I tell you that he privately extorted the
      price of his silence from Mrs. Vanstone to the last; and when I add that
      his conduct presents no extraordinary exception to the conduct, in their
      lifetime, of the other relatives&mdash;you will understand what sort of
      people I had to deal with in my client&rsquo;s interests, and how their assumed
      indignation was appeased.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Having, in the first instance, left England for Ireland, Mr. Vanstone and
      Miss Blake remained there afterward for some years. Girl as she was, she
      faced her position and its necessities without flinching. Having once
      resolved to sacrifice her life to the man she loved; having quieted her
      conscience by persuading herself that his marriage was a legal mockery,
      and that she was &lsquo;his wife in the sight of Heaven,&rsquo; she set herself from
      the first to accomplish the one foremost purpose of so living with him, in
      the world&rsquo;s eye, as never to raise the suspicion that she was not his
      lawful wife. The women are few, indeed, who cannot resolve firmly, scheme
      patiently, and act promptly where the dearest interests of their lives are
      concerned. Mrs. Vanstone&mdash;she has a right now, remember, to that name&mdash;Mrs.
      Vanstone had more than the average share of a woman&rsquo;s tenacity and a
      woman&rsquo;s tact; and she took all the needful precautions, in those early
      days, which her husband&rsquo;s less ready capacity had not the art to devise&mdash;precautions
      to which they were largely indebted for the preservation of their secret
      in later times.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thanks to these safeguards, not a shadow of suspicion followed them when
      they returned to England. They first settled in Devonshire, merely because
      they were far removed there from that northern county in which Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s family and connections had been known. On the part of his
      surviving relatives, they had no curious investigations to dread. He was
      totally estranged from his mother and his elder brother. His married
      sister had been forbidden by her husband (who was a clergyman) to hold any
      communication with him, from the period when he had fallen into the
      deplorable way of life which I have described as following his return from
      Canada. Other relations he had none. When he and Miss Blake left
      Devonshire, their next change of residence was to this house. Neither
      courting nor avoiding notice; simply happy in themselves, in their
      children, and in their quiet rural life; unsuspected by the few neighbors
      who formed their modest circle of acquaintance to be other than what they
      seemed&mdash;the truth in their case, as in the cases of many others,
      remained undiscovered until accident forced it into the light of day.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If, in your close intimacy with them, it seems strange that they should
      never have betrayed themselves, let me ask you to consider the
      circumstances and you will understand the apparent anomaly. Remember that
      they had been living as husband and wife, to all intents and purposes
      (except that the marriage-service had not been read over them), for
      fifteen years before you came into the house; and bear in mind, at the
      same time, that no event occurred to disturb Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s happiness in
      the present, to remind him of the past, or to warn him of the future,
      until the announcement of his wife&rsquo;s death reached him, in that letter
      from America which you saw placed in his hand. From that day forth&mdash;when
      a past which <i>he</i> abhorred was forced back to his memory; when a
      future which <i>she</i> had never dared to anticipate was placed within
      her reach&mdash;you will soon perceive, if you have not perceived already,
      that they both betrayed themselves, time after time; and that your
      innocence of all suspicion, and their children&rsquo;s innocence of all
      suspicion, alone prevented you from discovering the truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The sad story of the past is now as well known to you as to me. I have
      had hard words to speak. God knows I have spoken them with true sympathy
      for the living, with true tenderness for the memory of the dead.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused, turned his face a little away, and rested his head on his hand,
      in the quiet, undemonstrative manner which was natural to him. Thus far,
      Miss Garth had only interrupted his narrative by an occasional word or by
      a mute token of her attention. She made no effort to conceal her tears;
      they fell fast and silently over her wasted cheeks, as she looked up and
      spoke to him. &ldquo;I have done you some injury, sir, in my thoughts,&rdquo; she
      said, with a noble simplicity. &ldquo;I know you better now. Let me ask your
      forgiveness; let me take your hand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Those words, and the action which accompanied them, touched him deeply. He
      took her hand in silence. She was the first to speak, the first to set the
      example of self-control. It is one of the noble instincts of women that
      nothing more powerfully rouses them to struggle with their own sorrow than
      the sight of a man&rsquo;s distress. She quietly dried her tears; she quietly
      drew her chair round the table, so as to sit nearer to him when she spoke
      again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have been sadly broken, Mr. Pendril, by what has happened in this
      house,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;or I should have borne what you have told me better
      than I have borne it to-day. Will you let me ask one question before you
      go on? My heart aches for the children of my love&mdash;more than ever my
      children now. Is there no hope for their future? Are they left with no
      prospect but poverty before them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The lawyer hesitated before he answered the question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are left dependent,&rdquo; he said, at last, &ldquo;on the justice and the mercy
      of a stranger.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Through the misfortune of their birth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Through the misfortunes which have followed the marriage of their
      parents.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that startling answer he rose, took up the will from the floor, and
      restored it to its former position on the table between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can only place the truth before you,&rdquo; he resumed, &ldquo;in one plain form of
      words. The marriage has destroyed this will, and has left Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      daughters dependent on their uncle.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As he spoke, the breeze stirred again among the shrubs under the window.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On their uncle?&rdquo; repeated Miss Garth. She considered for a moment, and
      laid her hand suddenly on Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s arm. &ldquo;Not on Michael Vanstone!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes: on Michael Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth&rsquo;s hand still mechanically grasped the lawyer&rsquo;s arm. Her whole
      mind was absorbed in the effort to realize the discovery which had now
      burst on her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dependent on Michael Vanstone!&rdquo; she said to herself. &ldquo;Dependent on their
      father&rsquo;s bitterest enemy? How can it be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Give me your attention for a few minutes more,&rdquo; said Mr. Pendril, &ldquo;and
      you shall hear. The sooner we can bring this painful interview to a close,
      the sooner I can open communications with Mr. Michael Vanstone, and the
      sooner you will know what he decides on doing for his brother&rsquo;s orphan
      daughters. I repeat to you that they are absolutely dependent on him. You
      will most readily understand how and why, if we take up the chain of
      events where we last left it&mdash;at the period of Mr. and Mrs.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s marriage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One moment, sir,&rdquo; said Miss Garth. &ldquo;Were you in the secret of that
      marriage at the time when it took place?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Unhappily, I was not. I was away from London&mdash;away from England at
      the time. If Mr. Vanstone had been able to communicate with me when the
      letter from America announced the death of his wife, the fortunes of his
      daughters would not have been now at stake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused, and, before proceeding further, looked once more at the letters
      which he had consulted at an earlier period of the interview. He took one
      letter from the rest, and put it on the table by his side.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At the beginning of the present year,&rdquo; he resumed, &ldquo;a very serious
      business necessity, in connection with some West Indian property possessed
      by an old client and friend of mine, required the presence either of
      myself, or of one of my two partners, in Jamaica. One of the two could not
      be spared; the other was not in health to undertake the voyage. There was
      no choice left but for me to go. I wrote to Mr. Vanstone, telling him that
      I should leave England at the end of February, and that the nature of the
      business which took me away afforded little hope of my getting back from
      the West Indies before June. My letter was not written with any special
      motive. I merely thought it right&mdash;seeing that my partners were not
      admitted to my knowledge of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s private affairs&mdash;to warn
      him of my absence, as a measure of formal precaution which it was right to
      take. At the end of February I left England, without having heard from
      him. I was on the sea when the news of his wife&rsquo;s death reached him, on
      the fourth of March: and I did not return until the middle of last June.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You warned him of your departure,&rdquo; interposed Miss Garth. &ldquo;Did you not
      warn him of your return?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not personally. My head-clerk sent him one of the circulars which were
      dispatched from my office, in various directions, to announce my return.
      It was the first substitute I thought of for the personal letter which the
      pressure of innumerable occupations, all crowding on me together after my
      long absence, did not allow me leisure to write. Barely a month later, the
      first information of his marriage reached me in a letter from himself,
      written on the day of the fatal accident. The circumstances which induced
      him to write arose out of an event in which you must have taken some
      interest&mdash;I mean the attachment between Mr. Clare&rsquo;s son and Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s youngest daughter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I cannot say that I was favorably disposed toward that attachment at the
      time,&rdquo; replied Miss Garth. &ldquo;I was ignorant then of the family secret: I
      know better now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Exactly. The motive which you can now appreciate is the motive that leads
      us to the point. The young lady herself (as I have heard from the elder
      Mr. Clare, to whom I am indebted for my knowledge of the circumstances in
      detail) confessed her attachment to her father, and innocently touched him
      to the quick by a chance reference to his own early life. He had a long
      conversation with Mrs. Vanstone, at which they both agreed that Mr. Clare
      must be privately informed of the truth, before the attachment between the
      two young people was allowed to proceed further. It was painful in the
      last degree, both to husband and wife, to be reduced to this alternative.
      But they were resolute, honorably resolute, in making the sacrifice of
      their own feelings; and Mr. Vanstone betook himself on the spot to Mr.
      Clare&rsquo;s cottage.&mdash;You no doubt observed a remarkable change in Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s manner on that day; and you can now account for it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth bowed her head, and Mr. Pendril went on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Clare&rsquo;s contempt for all social
      prejudices,&rdquo; he continued, &ldquo;to anticipate his reception of the confession
      which his neighbor addressed to him. Five minutes after the interview had
      begun, the two old friends were as easy and unrestrained together as
      usual. In the course of conversation, Mr. Vanstone mentioned the pecuniary
      arrangement which he had made for the benefit of his daughter and of her
      future husband&mdash;and, in doing so, he naturally referred to his will
      here, on the table between us. Mr. Clare, remembering that his friend had
      been married in the March of that year, at once asked when the will had
      been executed: receiving the reply that it had been made five years since;
      and, thereupon, astounded Mr. Vanstone by telling him bluntly that the
      document was waste paper in the eye of the law. Up to that moment he, like
      many other persons, had been absolutely ignorant that a man&rsquo;s marriage is,
      legally as well as socially, considered to be the most important event in
      his life; that it destroys the validity of any will which he may have made
      as a single man; and that it renders absolutely necessary the entire
      re-assertion of his testamentary intentions in the character of a husband.
      The statement of this plain fact appeared to overwhelm Mr. Vanstone.
      Declaring that his friend had laid him under an obligation which he should
      remember to his dying day, he at once left the cottage, at once returned
      home, and wrote me this letter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He handed the letter open to Miss Garth. In tearless, speechless grief,
      she read these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR PENDRIL&mdash;Since we last wrote to each other an extraordinary
      change has taken place in my life. About a week after you went away, I
      received news from America which told me that I was free. Need I say what
      use I made of that freedom? Need I say that the mother of my children is
      now my Wife?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you are surprised at not having heard from me the moment you got back,
      attribute my silence, in great part&mdash;if not altogether&mdash;to my
      own total ignorance of the legal necessity for making another will. Not
      half an hour since, I was enlightened for the first time (under
      circumstances which I will mention when me meet) by my old friend, Mr.
      Clare. Family anxieties have had something to do with my silence as well.
      My wife&rsquo;s confinement is close at hand; and, besides this serious anxiety,
      my second daughter is just engaged to be married. Until I saw Mr. Clare
      to-day, these matters so filled my mind that I never thought of writing to
      you during the one short month which is all that has passed since I got
      news of your return. Now I know that my will must be made again, I write
      instantly. For God&rsquo;s sake, come on the day when you receive this&mdash;come
      and relieve me from the dreadful thought that my two darling girls are at
      this moment unprovided for. If anything happened to me, and if my desire
      to do their mother justice, ended (through my miserable ignorance of the
      law) in leaving Norah and Magdalen disinherited, I should not rest in my
      grave! Come at any cost, to yours ever,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A. V.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the Saturday morning,&rdquo; Mr. Pendril resumed, &ldquo;those lines reached me. I
      instantly set aside all other business, and drove to the railway. At the
      London terminus, I heard the first news of the Friday&rsquo;s accident; heard
      it, with conflicting accounts of the numbers and names of the passengers
      killed. At Bristol, they were better informed; and the dreadful truth
      about Mr. Vanstone was confirmed. I had time to recover myself before I
      reached your station here, and found Mr. Clare&rsquo;s son waiting for me. He
      took me to his father&rsquo;s cottage; and there, without losing a moment, I
      drew out Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s will. My object was to secure the only provision
      for her daughters which it was now possible to make. Mr. Vanstone having
      died intestate, a third of his fortune would go to his widow; and the rest
      would be divided among his next of kin. As children born out of wedlock,
      Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters, under the circumstances of their father&rsquo;s death,
      had no more claim to a share in his property than the daughters of one of
      his laborers in the village. The one chance left was that their mother
      might sufficiently recover to leave her third share to them, by will, in
      the event of her decease. Now you know why I wrote to you to ask for that
      interview&mdash;why I waited day and night, in the hope of receiving a
      summons to the house. I was sincerely sorry to send back such an answer to
      your note of inquiry as I was compelled to write. But while there was a
      chance of the preservation of Mrs. Vanstone&rsquo;s life, the secret of the
      marriage was hers, not mine; and every consideration of delicacy forbade
      me to disclose it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You did right, sir,&rdquo; said Miss Garth; &ldquo;I understand your motives, and
      respect them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My last attempt to provide for the daughters,&rdquo; continued Mr. Pendril,
      &ldquo;was, as you know, rendered unavailing by the dangerous nature of Mrs.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s illness. Her death left the infant who survived her by a few
      hours (the infant born, you will remember, in lawful wedlock) possessed,
      in due legal course, of the whole of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s fortune. On the
      child&rsquo;s death&mdash;if it had only outlived the mother by a few seconds,
      instead of a few hours, the result would have been the same&mdash;the next
      of kin to the legitimate offspring took the money; and that next of kin is
      the infant&rsquo;s paternal uncle, Michael Vanstone. The whole fortune of eighty
      thousand pounds has virtually passed into his possession already.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are there no other relations?&rdquo; asked Miss Garth. &ldquo;Is there no hope from
      any one else?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are no other relations with Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s claim,&rdquo; said the
      lawyer. &ldquo;There are no grandfathers or grandmothers of the dead child (on
      the side of either of the parents) now alive. It was not likely there
      should be, considering the ages of Mr. and Mrs. Vanstone when they died.
      But it is a misfortune to be reasonably lamented that no other uncles or
      aunts survive. There are cousins alive; a son and two daughters of that
      elder sister of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s, who married Archdeacon Bartram, and who
      died, as I told you, some years since. But their interest is superseded by
      the interest of the nearer blood. No, Miss Garth, we must look facts as
      they are resolutely in the face. Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters are Nobody&rsquo;s
      Children; and the law leaves them helpless at their uncle&rsquo;s mercy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A cruel law, Mr. Pendril&mdash;a cruel law in a Christian country.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Cruel as it is, Miss Garth, it stands excused by a shocking peculiarity
      in this case. I am far from defending the law of England as it affects
      illegitimate offspring. On the contrary, I think it a disgrace to the
      nation. It visits the sins of the parents on the children; it encourages
      vice by depriving fathers and mothers of the strongest of all motives for
      making the atonement of marriage; and it claims to produce these two
      abominable results in the names of morality and religion. But it has no
      extraordinary oppression to answer for in the case of these unhappy girls.
      The more merciful and Christian law of other countries, which allows the
      marriage of the parents to make the children legitimate, has no mercy on
      <i>these</i> children. The accident of their father having been married,
      when he first met with their mother, has made them the outcasts of the
      whole social community; it has placed them out of the pale of the Civil
      Law of Europe. I tell you the hard truth&mdash;it is useless to disguise
      it. There is no hope, if we look back at the past: there may be hope, if
      we look on to the future. The best service which I can now render you is
      to shorten the period of your suspense. In less than an hour I shall be on
      my way back to London. Immediately on my arrival, I will ascertain the
      speediest means of communicating with Mr. Michael Vanstone; and will let
      you know the result. Sad as the position of the two sisters now is, we
      must look at it on its best side; we must not lose hope.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hope?&rdquo; repeated Miss Garth. &ldquo;Hope from Michael Vanstone!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; hope from the influence on him of time, if not from the influence of
      mercy. As I have already told you, he is now an old man; he cannot, in the
      course of nature, expect to live much longer. If he looks back to the
      period when he and his brother were first at variance, he must look back
      through thirty years. Surely, these are softening influences which must
      affect any man? Surely, his own knowledge of the shocking circumstances
      under which he has become possessed of this money will plead with him, if
      nothing else does?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will try to think as you do, Mr. Pendril&mdash;I will try to hope for
      the best. Shall we be left long in suspense before the decision reaches
      us?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I trust not. The only delay on my side will be caused by the necessity of
      discovering the place of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s residence on the Continent. I
      think I have the means of meeting this difficulty successfully; and the
      moment I reach London, those means shall be tried.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He took up his hat; and then returned to the table on which the father&rsquo;s
      last letter, and the father&rsquo;s useless will, were lying side by side. After
      a moment&rsquo;s consideration, he placed them both in Miss Garth&rsquo;s hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It may help you in breaking the hard truth to the orphan sisters,&rdquo; he
      said, in his quiet, self-repressed way, &ldquo;if they can see how their father
      refers to them in his will&mdash;if they can read his letter to me, the
      last he ever wrote. Let these tokens tell them that the one idea of their
      father&rsquo;s life was the idea of making atonement to his children. &lsquo;They may
      think bitterly of their birth,&rsquo; he said to me, at the time when I drew
      this useless will; &lsquo;but they shall never think bitterly of me. I will
      cross them in nothing: they shall never know a sorrow that I can spare
      them, or a want which I will not satisfy.&rsquo; He made me put those words in
      his will, to plead for him when the truth which he had concealed from his
      children in his lifetime was revealed to them after his death. No law can
      deprive his daughters of the legacy of his repentance and his love. I
      leave the will and the letter to help you: I give them both into your
      care.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He saw how his parting kindness touched her and thoughtfully hastened the
      farewell. She took his hand in both her own and murmured a few broken
      words of gratitude. &ldquo;Trust me to do my best,&rdquo; he said&mdash;and, turning
      away with a merciful abruptness, left her. In the broad, cheerful sunshine
      he had come in to reveal the fatal truth. In the broad, cheerful sunshine&mdash;that
      truth disclosed&mdash;he went out.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XIV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      IT was nearly an hour past noon when Mr. Pendril left the house. Miss
      Garth sat down again at the table alone, and tried to face the necessity
      which the event of the morning now forced on her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her mind was not equal to the effort. She tried to lessen the strain on it&mdash;to
      lose the sense of her own position&mdash;to escape from her thoughts for a
      few minutes only. After a little, she opened Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s letter, and
      mechanically set herself to read it through once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      One by one, the last words of the dead man fastened themselves more and
      more firmly on her attention. The unrelieved solitude, the unbroken
      silence, helped their influence on her mind and opened it to those very
      impressions of past and present which she was most anxious to shun. As she
      reached the melancholy lines which closed the letter, she found herself&mdash;insensibly,
      almost unconsciously, at first&mdash;tracing the fatal chain of events,
      link by link backward, until she reached its beginning in the contemplated
      marriage between Magdalen and Francis Clare.
    </p>
    <p>
      That marriage had taken Mr. Vanstone to his old friend, with the
      confession on his lips which would otherwise never have escaped them.
      Thence came the discovery which had sent him home to summon the lawyer to
      the house. That summons, again, had produced the inevitable acceleration
      of the Saturday&rsquo;s journey to Friday; the Friday of the fatal accident, the
      Friday when he went to his death. From his death followed the second
      bereavement which had made the house desolate; the helpless position of
      the daughters whose prosperous future had been his dearest care; the
      revelation of the secret which had overwhelmed her that morning; the
      disclosure, more terrible still, which she now stood committed to make to
      the orphan sisters. For the first time she saw the whole sequence of
      events&mdash;saw it as plainly as the cloudless blue of the sky and the
      green glow of the trees in the sunlight outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      How&mdash;when could she tell them? Who could approach them with the
      disclosure of their own illegitimacy before their father and mother had
      been dead a week? Who could speak the dreadful words, while the first
      tears were wet on their cheeks, while the first pang of separation was at
      its keenest in their hearts, while the memory of the funeral was not a day
      old yet? Not their last friend left; not the faithful woman whose heart
      bled for them. No! silence for the present time, at all risks&mdash;merciful
      silence, for many days to come!
    </p>
    <p>
      She left the room, with the will and the letter in her hand&mdash;with the
      natural, human pity at her heart which sealed her lips and shut her eyes
      resolutely to the future. In the hall she stopped and listened. Not a
      sound was audible. She softly ascended the stairs, on her way to her own
      room, and passed the door of Norah&rsquo;s bed-chamber. Voices inside, the
      voices of the two sisters, caught her ear. After a moment&rsquo;s consideration,
      she checked herself, turned back, and quickly descended the stairs again.
      Both Norah and Magdalen knew of the interview between Mr. Pendril and
      herself; she had felt it her duty to show them his letter making the
      appointment. Could she excite their suspicion by locking herself up from
      them in her room as soon as the lawyer had left the house? Her hand
      trembled on the banister; she felt that her face might betray her. The
      self-forgetful fortitude, which had never failed her until that day, had
      been tried once too often&mdash;had been tasked beyond its powers at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the hall door she reflected for a moment again, and went into the
      garden; directing her steps to a rustic bench and table placed out of
      sight of the house among the trees. In past times she had often sat there,
      with Mrs. Vanstone on one side, with Norah on the other, with Magdalen and
      the dogs romping on the grass. Alone she sat there now&mdash;the will and
      the letter which she dared not trust out of her own possession, laid on
      the table&mdash;her head bowed over them; her face hidden in her hands.
      Alone she sat there and tried to rouse her sinking courage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Doubts thronged on her of the dark days to come; dread beset her of the
      hidden danger which her own silence toward Norah and Magdalen might store
      up in the near future. The accident of a moment might suddenly reveal the
      truth. Mr. Pendril might write, might personally address himself to the
      sisters, in the natural conviction that she had enlightened them.
      Complications might gather round them at a moment&rsquo;s notice; unforeseen
      necessities might arise for immediately leaving the house. She saw all
      these perils&mdash;and still the cruel courage to face the worst, and
      speak, was as far from her as ever. Ere long the thickening conflict of
      her thoughts forced its way outward for relief, in words and actions. She
      raised her head and beat her hand helplessly on the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God help me, what am I to do?&rdquo; she broke out. &ldquo;How am I to tell them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no need to tell them,&rdquo; said a voice behind her. &ldquo;They know it
      already.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She started to her feet and looked round. It was Magdalen who stood before
      her&mdash;Magdalen who had spoken those words.
    </p>
    <p>
      Yes, there was the graceful figure, in its mourning garments, standing out
      tall and black and motionless against the leafy background. There was
      Magdalen herself, with a changeless stillness on her white face; with an
      icy resignation in her steady gray eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We know it already,&rdquo; she repeated, in clear, measured tones. &ldquo;Mr.
      Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters are Nobody&rsquo;s Children; and the law leaves them
      helpless at their uncle&rsquo;s mercy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So, without a tear on her cheeks, without a faltering tone in her voice,
      she repeated the lawyer&rsquo;s own words, exactly as he had spoken them. Miss
      Garth staggered back a step and caught at the bench to support herself.
      Her head swam; she closed her eyes in a momentary faintness. When they
      opened again, Magdalen&rsquo;s arm was supporting her, Magdalen&rsquo;s breath fanned
      her cheek, Magdalen&rsquo;s cold lips kissed her. She drew back from the kiss;
      the touch of the girl&rsquo;s lips thrilled her with terror.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as she could speak she put the inevitable question. &ldquo;You heard
      us,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Where?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under the open window.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All the time?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;From beginning to end.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had listened&mdash;this girl of eighteen, in the first week of her
      orphanage, had listened to the whole terrible revelation, word by word, as
      it fell from the lawyer&rsquo;s lips; and had never once betrayed herself! From
      first to last, the only movements which had escaped her had been movements
      guarded enough and slight enough to be mistaken for the passage of the
      summer breeze through the leaves!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t try to speak yet,&rdquo; she said, in softer and gentler tones. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
      look at me with those doubting eyes. What wrong have I done? When Mr.
      Pendril wished to speak to you about Norah and me, his letter gave us our
      choice to be present at the interview, or to keep away. If my elder sister
      decided to keep away, how could I come? How could I hear my own story
      except as I did? My listening has done no harm. It has done good&mdash;it
      has saved you the distress of speaking to us. You have suffered enough for
      us already; it is time we learned to suffer for ourselves. I have learned.
      And Norah is learning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. I have done all I could to spare you. I have told Norah.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had told Norah! Was this girl, whose courage had faced the terrible
      necessity from which a woman old enough to be her mother had recoiled, the
      girl Miss Garth had brought up? the girl whose nature she had believed to
      be as well known to her as her own?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Magdalen!&rdquo; she cried out, passionately, &ldquo;you frighten me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen only sighed, and turned wearily away.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Try not to think worse of me than I deserve,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t cry. My
      heart is numbed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She moved away slowly over the grass. Miss Garth watched the tall black
      figure gliding away alone until it was lost among the trees. While it was
      in sight she could think of nothing else. The moment it was gone, she
      thought of Norah. For the first time in her experience of the sisters her
      heart led her instinctively to the elder of the two.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah was still in her own room. She was sitting on the couch by the
      window, with her mother&rsquo;s old music-book&mdash;the keepsake which Mrs.
      Vanstone had found in her husband&rsquo;s study on the day of her husband&rsquo;s
      death&mdash;spread open on her lap. She looked up from it with such quiet
      sorrow, and pointed with such ready kindness to the vacant place at her
      side, that Miss Garth doubted for the moment whether Magdalen had spoken
      the truth. &ldquo;See,&rdquo; said Norah, simply, turning to the first leaf in the
      music-book&mdash;&ldquo;my mother&rsquo;s name written in it, and some verses to my
      father on the next page. We may keep this for ourselves, if we keep
      nothing else.&rdquo; She put her arm round Miss Garth&rsquo;s neck, and a faint tinge
      of color stole over her cheeks. &ldquo;I see anxious thoughts in your face,&rdquo; she
      whispered. &ldquo;Are you anxious about me? Are you doubting whether I have
      heard it? I have heard the whole truth. I might have felt it bitterly,
      later; it is too soon to feel it now. You have seen Magdalen? She went out
      to find you&mdash;where did you leave her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the garden. I couldn&rsquo;t speak to her; I couldn&rsquo;t look at her. Magdalen
      has frightened me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah rose hurriedly; rose, startled and distressed by Miss Garth&rsquo;s reply.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t think ill of Magdalen,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Magdalen suffers in secret more
      than I do. Try not to grieve over what you have heard about us this
      morning. Does it matter who we are, or what we keep or lose? What loss is
      there for us after the loss of our father and mother? Oh, Miss Garth, <i>there</i>
      is the only bitterness! What did we remember of them when we laid them in
      the grave yesterday? Nothing but the love they gave us&mdash;the love we
      must never hope for again. What else can we remember to-day? What change
      can the world, and the world&rsquo;s cruel laws make in <i>our</i> memory of the
      kindest father, the kindest mother, that children ever had!&rdquo; She stopped:
      struggled with her rising grief; and quietly, resolutely, kept it down.
      &ldquo;Will you wait here,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;while I go and bring Magdalen back?
      Magdalen was always your favorite: I want her to be your favorite still.&rdquo;
       She laid the music-book gently on Miss Garth&rsquo;s lap&mdash;and left the
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Magdalen was always your favorite.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Tenderly as they had been spoken, those words fell reproachfully on Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s ear. For the first time in the long companionship of her pupils
      and herself a doubt whether she, and all those about her, had not been
      fatally mistaken in their relative estimate of the sisters, now forced
      itself on her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had studied the natures of her two pupils in the daily intimacy of
      twelve years. Those natures, which she believed herself to have sounded
      through all their depths, had been suddenly tried in the sharp ordeal of
      affliction. How had they come out from the test? As her previous
      experience had prepared her to see them? No: in flat contradiction to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      What did such a result as this imply?
    </p>
    <p>
      Thoughts came to her, as she asked herself that question, which have
      startled and saddened us all.
    </p>
    <p>
      Does there exist in every human being, beneath that outward and visible
      character which is shaped into form by the social influences surrounding
      us, an inward, invisible disposition, which is part of ourselves, which
      education may indirectly modify, but can never hope to change? Is the
      philosophy which denies this and asserts that we are born with
      dispositions like blank sheets of paper a philosophy which has failed to
      remark that we are not born with blank faces&mdash;a philosophy which has
      never compared together two infants of a few days old, and has never
      observed that those infants are not born with blank tempers for mothers
      and nurses to fill up at will? Are there, infinitely varying with each
      individual, inbred forces of Good and Evil in all of us, deep down below
      the reach of mortal encouragement and mortal repression&mdash;hidden Good
      and hidden Evil, both alike at the mercy of the liberating opportunity and
      the sufficient temptation? Within these earthly limits, is earthly
      Circumstance ever the key; and can no human vigilance warn us beforehand
      of the forces imprisoned in ourselves which that key <i>may</i> unlock?
    </p>
    <p>
      For the first time, thoughts such as these rose darkly&mdash;as shadowy
      and terrible possibilities&mdash;in Miss Garth&rsquo;s mind. For the first time,
      she associated those possibilities with the past conduct and characters,
      with the future lives and fortunes of the orphan sisters.
    </p>
    <p>
      Searching, as in a glass darkly, into the two natures, she felt her way,
      doubt by doubt, from one possible truth to another. It might be that the
      upper surface of their characters was all that she had, thus far, plainly
      seen in Norah and Magdalen. It might be that the unalluring secrecy and
      reserve of one sister, the all-attractive openness and high spirits of the
      other, were more or less referable, in each case, to those physical causes
      which work toward the production of moral results. It might be, that under
      the surface so formed&mdash;a surface which there had been nothing,
      hitherto, in the happy, prosperous, uneventful lives of the sisters to
      disturb&mdash;forces of inborn and inbred disposition had remained
      concealed, which the shock of the first serious calamity in their lives
      had now thrown up into view. Was this so? Was the promise of the future
      shining with prophetic light through the surface-shadow of Norah&rsquo;s
      reserve, and darkening with prophetic gloom, under the surface-glitter of
      Magdalen&rsquo;s bright spirits? If the life of the elder sister was destined
      henceforth to be the ripening ground of the undeveloped Good that was in
      her&mdash;was the life of the younger doomed to be the battle-field of mortal
      conflict with the roused forces of Evil in herself?
    </p>
    <p>
      On the brink of that terrible conclusion, Miss Garth shrank back in
      dismay. Her heart was the heart of a true woman. It accepted the
      conviction which raised Norah higher in her love: it rejected the doubt
      which threatened to place Magdalen lower. She rose and paced the room
      impatiently; she recoiled with an angry suddenness from the whole train of
      thought in which her mind had been engaged but the moment before. What if
      there were dangerous elements in the strength of Magdalen&rsquo;s character&mdash;was
      it not her duty to help the girl against herself? How had she performed
      that duty? She had let herself be governed by first fears and first
      impressions; she had never waited to consider whether Magdalen&rsquo;s openly
      acknowledged action of that morning might not imply a self-sacrificing
      fortitude, which promised, in after-life, the noblest and the most
      enduring results. She had let Norah go and speak those words of tender
      remonstrance, which she should first have spoken herself. &ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; she
      thought, bitterly, &ldquo;how long I have lived in the world, and how little I
      have known of my own weakness and wickedness until to-day!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The door of the room opened. Norah came in, as she had gone out, alone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you remember leaving anything on the little table by the garden-seat?&rdquo;
       she asked, quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before Miss Garth could answer the question, she held out her father&rsquo;s
      will and her father&rsquo;s letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Magdalen came back after you went away,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and found these last
      relics. She heard Mr. Pendril say they were her legacy and mine. When I
      went into the garden she was reading the letter. There was no need for me
      to speak to her; our father had spoken to her from his grave. See how she
      has listened to him!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She pointed to the letter. The traces of heavy tear-drops lay thick over
      the last lines of the dead man&rsquo;s writing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;<i>Her</i> tears,&rdquo; said Norah, softly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth&rsquo;s head drooped low over the mute revelation of Magdalen&rsquo;s
      return to her better self.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, never doubt her again!&rdquo; pleaded Norah. &ldquo;We are alone now&mdash;we
      have our hard way through the world to walk on as patiently as we can. If
      Magdalen ever falters and turns back, help her for the love of old times;
      help her against herself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With all my heart and strength&mdash;as God shall judge me, with the
      devotion of my whole life!&rdquo; In those fervent words Miss Garth answered.
      She took the hand which Norah held out to her, and put it, in sorrow and
      humility, to her lips. &ldquo;Oh, my love, forgive me! I have been miserably
      blind&mdash;I have never valued you as I ought!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah gently checked her before she could say more; gently whispered,
      &ldquo;Come with me into the garden&mdash;come, and help Magdalen to look
      patiently to the future.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The future! Who could see the faintest glimmer of it? Who could see
      anything but the ill-omened figure of Michael Vanstone, posted darkly on
      the verge of the present time&mdash;and closing all the prospect that lay
      beyond him?
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ON the next morning but one, news was received from Mr. Pendril. The place
      of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s residence on the Continent had been discovered. He
      was living at Zurich; and a letter had been dispatched to him, at that
      place, on the day when the information was obtained. In the course of the
      coming week an answer might be expected, and the purport of it should be
      communicated forthwith to the ladies at Combe-Raven.
    </p>
    <p>
      Short as it was, the interval of delay passed wearily. Ten days elapsed
      before the expected answer was received; and when it came at last, it
      proved to be, strictly speaking, no answer at all. Mr. Pendril had been
      merely referred to an agent in London who was in possession of Michael
      Vanstone&rsquo;s instructions. Certain difficulties had been discovered in
      connection with those instructions, which had produced the necessity of
      once more writing to Zurich. And there &ldquo;the negotiations&rdquo; rested again for
      the present.
    </p>
    <p>
      A second paragraph in Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s letter contained another piece of
      intelligence entirely new. Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s son (and only child),
      Mr. Noel Vanstone, had recently arrived in London, and was then staying in
      lodgings occupied by his cousin, Mr. George Bartram. Professional
      considerations had induced Mr. Pendril to pay a visit to the lodgings. He
      had been very kindly received by Mr. Bartram; but had been informed by
      that gentleman that his cousin was not then in a condition to receive
      visitors. Mr. Noel Vanstone had been suffering, for some years past, from
      a wearing and obstinate malady; he had come to England expressly to obtain
      the best medical advice, and he still felt the fatigue of the journey so
      severely as to be confined to his bed. Under these circumstances, Mr.
      Pendril had no alternative but to take his leave. An interview with Mr.
      Noel Vanstone might have cleared up some of the difficulties in connection
      with his father&rsquo;s instructions. As events had turned out, there was no
      help for it but to wait for a few days more.
    </p>
    <p>
      The days passed, the empty days of solitude and suspense. At last, a third
      letter from the lawyer announced the long delayed conclusion of the
      correspondence. The final answer had been received from Zurich, and Mr.
      Pendril would personally communicate it at Combe-Raven on the afternoon of
      the next day.
    </p>
    <p>
      That next day was Wednesday, the twelfth of August. The weather had
      changed in the night; and the sun rose watery through mist and cloud. By
      noon the sky was overcast at all points; the temperature was sensibly
      colder; and the rain poured down, straight and soft and steady, on the
      thirsty earth. Toward three o&rsquo;clock, Miss Garth and Norah entered the
      morning-room, to await Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s arrival. They were joined shortly
      afterward by Magdalen. In half an hour more the familiar fall of the iron
      latch in the socket reached their ears from the fence beyond the
      shrubbery. Mr. Pendril and Mr. Clare advanced into view along the
      garden-path, walking arm-in-arm through the rain, sheltered by the same
      umbrella. The lawyer bowed as they passed the windows; Mr. Clare walked
      straight on, deep in his own thoughts&mdash;noticing nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a delay which seemed interminable; after a weary scraping of wet
      feet on the hall mat; after a mysterious, muttered interchange of question
      and answer outside the door, the two came in&mdash;Mr. Clare leading the
      way. The old man walked straight up to the table, without any preliminary
      greeting, and looked across it at the three women, with a stern pity for
      them in his ragged, wrinkled face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bad news,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I am an enemy to all unnecessary suspense. Plainness
      is kindness in such a case as this. I mean to be kind&mdash;and I tell you
      plainly&mdash;bad news.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril followed him. He shook hands, in silence, with Miss Garth and
      the two sisters, and took a seat near them. Mr. Clare placed himself apart
      on a chair by the window. The gray rainy light fell soft and sad on the
      faces of Norah and Magdalen, who sat together opposite to him. Miss Garth
      had placed herself a little behind them, in partial shadow; and the
      lawyer&rsquo;s quiet face was seen in profile, close beside her. So the four
      occupants of the room appeared to Mr. Clare, as he sat apart in his
      corner; his long claw-like fingers interlaced on his knee; his dark
      vigilant eyes fixed searchingly now on one face, now on another. The
      dripping rustle of the rain among the leaves, and the clear, ceaseless
      tick of the clock on the mantel-piece, made the minute of silence which
      followed the settling of the persons present in their places indescribably
      oppressive. It was a relief to every one when Mr. Pendril spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Clare has told you already,&rdquo; he began, &ldquo;that I am the bearer of bad
      news. I am grieved to say, Miss Garth, that your doubts, when I last saw
      you, were better founded than my hopes. What that heartless elder brother
      was in his youth, he is still in his old age. In all my unhappy experience
      of the worst side of human nature, I have never met with a man so utterly
      dead to every consideration of mercy as Michael Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you mean that he takes the whole of his brother&rsquo;s fortune, and makes
      no provision whatever for his brother&rsquo;s children?&rdquo; asked Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He offers a sum of money for present emergencies,&rdquo; replied Mr. Pendril,
      &ldquo;so meanly and disgracefully insufficient that I am ashamed to mention
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And nothing for the future?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Absolutely nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As that answer was given, the same thought passed, at the same moment,
      through Miss Garth&rsquo;s mind and through Norah&rsquo;s. The decision, which
      deprived both the sisters alike of the resources of fortune, did not end
      there for the younger of the two. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s merciless resolution
      had virtually pronounced the sentence which dismissed Frank to China, and
      which destroyed all present hope of Magdalen&rsquo;s marriage. As the words
      passed the lawyer&rsquo;s lips, Miss Garth and Norah looked at Magdalen
      anxiously. Her face turned a shade paler&mdash;but not a feature of it
      moved; not a word escaped her. Norah, who held her sister&rsquo;s hand in her
      own, felt it tremble for a moment, and then turn cold&mdash;and that was
      all.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me mention plainly what I have done,&rdquo; resumed Mr. Pendril; &ldquo;I am very
      desirous you should not think that I have left any effort untried. When I
      wrote to Michael Vanstone, in the first instance, I did not confine myself
      to the usual formal statement. I put before him, plainly and earnestly,
      every one of the circumstances under which he has become possessed of his
      brother&rsquo;s fortune. When I received the answer, referring me to his written
      instructions to his lawyer in London&mdash;and when a copy of those
      instructions was placed in my hands&mdash;I positively declined, on
      becoming acquainted with them, to receive the writer&rsquo;s decision as final.
      I induced the solicitor, on the other side, to accord us a further term
      of delay; I attempted to see Mr. Noel Vanstone in London for the purpose
      of obtaining his intercession; and, failing in that, I myself wrote to his
      father for the second time. The answer referred me, in insolently curt
      terms, to the instructions already communicated; declared those
      instructions to be final; and declined any further correspondence with me.
      There is the beginning and the end of the negotiation. If I have
      overlooked any means of touching this heartless man&mdash;tell me, and
      those means shall be tried.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked at Norah. She pressed her sister&rsquo;s hand encouragingly, and
      answered for both of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I speak for my sister, as well as for myself,&rdquo; she said, with her color a
      little heightened, with her natural gentleness of manner just touched by a
      quiet, uncomplaining sadness. &ldquo;You have done all that could be done, Mr.
      Pendril. We have tried to restrain ourselves from hoping too confidently;
      and we are deeply grateful for your kindness, at a time when kindness is
      sorely needed by both of us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s hand returned the pressure of her sister&rsquo;s&mdash;withdrew
      itself&mdash;trifled for a moment impatiently with the arrangement of her
      dress&mdash;then suddenly moved the chair closer to the table. Leaning one
      arm on it (with the hand fast clinched), she looked across at Mr. Pendril.
      Her face, always remarkable for its want of color, was now startling to
      contemplate, in its blank, bloodless pallor. But the light in her large
      gray eyes was bright and steady as ever; and her voice, though low in
      tone, was clear and resolute in accent as she addressed the lawyer in
      these terms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understood you to say, Mr. Pendril, that my father&rsquo;s brother had sent
      his written orders to London, and that you had a copy. Have you preserved
      it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you got it about you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I see it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril hesitated, and looked uneasily from Magdalen to Miss Garth,
      and from Miss Garth back again to Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray oblige me by not pressing your request,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It is surely
      enough that you know the result of the instructions. Why should you
      agitate yourself to no purpose by reading them? They are expressed so
      cruelly; they show such abominable want of feeling, that I really cannot
      prevail upon myself to let you see them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sensible of your kindness, Mr. Pendril, in wishing to spare me pain.
      But I can bear pain; I promise to distress nobody. Will you excuse me if I
      repeat my request?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She held out her hand&mdash;the soft, white, virgin hand that had touched
      nothing to soil it or harden it yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Magdalen, think again!&rdquo; said Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You distress Mr. Pendril,&rdquo; added Miss Garth; &ldquo;you distress us all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There can be no end gained,&rdquo; pleaded the lawyer&mdash;&ldquo;forgive me for
      saying so&mdash;there can really be no useful end gained by my showing you
      the instructions.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      (&ldquo;Fools!&rdquo; said Mr. Clare to himself. &ldquo;Have they no eyes to see that she
      means to have her own way?&rdquo;)
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Something tells me there is an end to be gained,&rdquo; persisted Magdalen.
      &ldquo;This decision is a very serious one. It is more serious to me&mdash;&rdquo; She
      looked round at Mr. Clare, who sat closely watching her, and instantly
      looked back again, with the first outward betrayal of emotion which had
      escaped her yet. &ldquo;It is even more serious to me,&rdquo; she resumed, &ldquo;for
      private reasons&mdash;than it is to my sister. I know nothing yet but that
      our father&rsquo;s brother has taken our fortunes from us. He must have some
      motives of his own for such conduct as that. It is not fair to him, or
      fair to us, to keep those motives concealed. He has deliberately robbed
      Norah, and robbed me; and I think we have a right, if we wish it, to know
      why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t wish it,&rdquo; said Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do,&rdquo; said Magdalen; and once more she held out her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      At this point Mr. Clare roused himself and interfered for the first time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have relieved your conscience,&rdquo; he said, addressing the lawyer. &ldquo;Give
      her the right she claims. It <i>is</i> her right&mdash;if she will have
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril quietly took the written instructions from his pocket. &ldquo;I have
      warned you,&rdquo; he said&mdash;and handed the papers across the table without
      another word. One of the pages of writing&mdash;was folded down at the
      corner; and at that folded page the manuscript opened, when Magdalen first
      turned the leaves. &ldquo;Is this the place which refers to my sister and
      myself?&rdquo; she inquired. Mr. Pendril bowed; and Magdalen smoothed out the
      manuscript before her on the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you decide, Norah?&rdquo; she asked, turning to her sister. &ldquo;Shall I read
      this aloud, or shall I read it to myself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To yourself,&rdquo; said Miss Garth; answering for Norah, who looked at her in
      mute perplexity and distress.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It shall be as you wish,&rdquo; said Magdalen. With that reply, she turned
      again to the manuscript and read these lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;.... You are now in possession of my wishes in relation to the property
      in money, and to the sale of the furniture, carriages, horses, and so
      forth. The last point left on which it is necessary for me to instruct you
      refers to the persons inhabiting the house, and to certain preposterous
      claims on their behalf set up by a solicitor named Pendril; who has, no
      doubt, interested reasons of his own for making application to me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understand that my late brother has left two illegitimate children;
      both of them young women, who are of an age to earn their own livelihood.
      Various considerations, all equally irregular, have been urged in respect
      to these persons by the solicitor representing them. Be so good as to tell
      him that neither you nor I have anything to do with questions of mere
      sentiment; and then state plainly, for his better information, what the
      motives are which regulate my conduct, and what the provision is which I
      feel myself justified in making for the two young women. Your instructions
      on both these points you will find detailed in the next paragraph.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish the persons concerned to know, once for all, how I regard the
      circumstances which have placed my late brother&rsquo;s property at my disposal.
      Let them understand that I consider those circumstances to be a
      Providential interposition which has restored to me the inheritance that
      ought always to have been mine. I receive the money, not only as my right,
      but also as a proper compensation for the injustice which I suffered from
      my father, and a proper penalty paid by my younger brother for the vile
      intrigue by which he succeeded in disinheriting me. His conduct, when a
      young man, was uniformly discreditable in all the relations of life; and
      what it then was it continued to be (on the showing of his own legal
      representative) after the time when I ceased to hold any communication
      with him. He appears to have systematically imposed a woman on Society as
      his wife who was not his wife, and to have completed the outrage on
      morality by afterward marrying her. Such conduct as this has called down a
      Judgment on himself and his children. I will not invite retribution on my
      own head by assisting those children to continue the imposition which
      their parents practiced, and by helping them to take a place in the world
      to which they are not entitled. Let them, as becomes their birth, gain
      their bread in situations. If they show themselves disposed to accept
      their proper position I will assist them to start virtuously in life by a
      present of one hundred pounds each. This sum I authorize you to pay them,
      on their personal application, with the necessary acknowledgment of
      receipt; and on the express understanding that the transaction, so
      completed, is to be the beginning and the end of my connection with them.
      The arrangements under which they quit the house I leave to your
      discretion; and I have only to add that my decision on this matter, as on
      all other matters, is positive and final.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Line by line&mdash;without once looking up from the pages before her
      &mdash;Magdalen read those atrocious sentences through, from beginning to
      end. The other persons assembled in the room, all eagerly looking at her
      together, saw the dress rising and falling faster and faster over her
      bosom&mdash;saw the hand in which she lightly held the manuscript at the
      outset close unconsciously on the paper and crush it, as she advanced
      nearer and nearer to the end&mdash;but detected no other outward signs of
      what was passing within her. As soon as she had done, she silently pushed
      the manuscript away, and put her hands on a sudden over her face. When she
      withdrew them, all the four persons in the room noticed a change in her.
      Something in her expression had altered, subtly and silently; something
      which made the familiar features suddenly look strange, even to her sister
      and Miss Garth; something, through all after years, never to be forgotten
      in connection with that day&mdash;and never to be described.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first words she spoke were addressed to Mr. Pendril.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask one more favor,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;before you enter on your business
      arrangements?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril replied ceremoniously by a gesture of assent. Magdalen&rsquo;s
      resolution to possess herself of the Instructions did not appear to have
      produced a favorable impression on the lawyer&rsquo;s mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mentioned what you were so kind as to do, in our interests, when you
      first wrote to Mr. Michael Vanstone,&rdquo; she continued. &ldquo;You said you had
      told him all the circumstances. I want&mdash;if you will allow me&mdash;to
      be made quite sure of what he really knew about us&mdash;when he sent
      these orders to his lawyer. Did he know that my father had made a will,
      and that he had left our fortunes to my sister and myself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He did know it,&rdquo; said Mr. Pendril.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you tell him how it happened that we are left in this helpless
      position?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I told him that your father was entirely unaware, when he married, of the
      necessity for making another will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And that another will would have been made, after he saw Mr. Clare, but
      for the dreadful misfortune of his death?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He knew that also.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did he know that my father&rsquo;s untiring goodness and kindness to both of us&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice faltered for the first time: she sighed, and put her hand to her
      head wearily. Norah spoke entreatingly to her; Miss Garth spoke
      entreatingly to her; Mr. Clare sat silent, watching her more and more
      earnestly. She answered her sister&rsquo;s remonstrance with a faint smile. &ldquo;I
      will keep my promise,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I will distress nobody.&rdquo; With that
      reply, she turned again to Mr. Pendril; and steadily reiterated the
      question&mdash;but in another form of words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did Mr. Michael Vanstone know that my father&rsquo;s great anxiety was to make
      sure of providing for my sister and myself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He knew it in your father&rsquo;s own words. I sent him an extract from your
      father&rsquo;s last letter to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The letter which asked you to come for God&rsquo;s sake, and relieve him from
      the dreadful thought that his daughters were unprovided for? The letter
      which said he should not rest in his grave if he left us disinherited?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That letter and those words.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She paused, still keeping her eyes steadily fixed on the lawyer&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to fasten it all in my mind,&rdquo; she said &ldquo;before I go on. Mr.
      Michael Vanstone knew of the first will; he knew what prevented the making
      of the second will; he knew of the letter and he read the words. What did
      he know of besides? Did you tell him of my mother&rsquo;s last illness? Did you
      say that her share in the money would have been left to us, if she could
      have lifted her dying hand in your presence? Did you try to make him
      ashamed of the cruel law which calls girls in our situation Nobody&rsquo;s
      Children, and which allows him to use us as he is using us now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I put all those considerations to him. I left none of them doubtful; I
      left none of them out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She slowly reached her hand to the copy of the Instructions, and slowly
      folded it up again, in the shape in which it had been presented to her. &ldquo;I
      am much obliged to you, Mr. Pendril.&rdquo; With those words, she bowed, and
      gently pushed the manuscript back across the table; then turned to her
      sister.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;if we both of us live to grow old, and if you ever
      forget all that we owe to Michael Vanstone&mdash;come to me, and I will
      remind you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose and walked across the room by herself to the window. As she
      passed Mr. Clare, the old man stretched out his claw-like fingers and
      caught her fast by the arm before she was aware of him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is this mask of yours hiding?&rdquo; he asked, forcing her to bend to him,
      and looking close into her face. &ldquo;Which of the extremes of human
      temperature does your courage start from&mdash;the dead cold or the white
      hot?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shrank back from him and turned away her head in silence. She would
      have resented that unscrupulous intrusion on her own thoughts from any man
      alive but Frank&rsquo;s father. He dropped her arm as suddenly as he had taken
      it, and let her go on to the window. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said to himself, &ldquo;not the
      cold extreme, whatever else it may be. So much the worse for her, and for
      all belonging to her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a momentary pause. Once more the dripping rustle of the rain and
      the steady ticking of the clock filled up the gap of silence. Mr. Pendril
      put the Instructions back in his pocket, considered a little, and, turning
      toward Norah and Miss Garth, recalled their attention to the present and
      pressing necessities of the time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our consultation has been needlessly prolonged,&rdquo; he sail, &ldquo;by painful
      references to the past. We shall be better employed in settling our
      arrangements for the future. I am obliged to return to town this evening.
      Pray let me hear how I can best assist you; pray tell me what trouble and
      what responsibility I can take off your hands.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For the moment, neither Norah nor Miss Garth seemed to be capable of
      answering him. Magdalen&rsquo;s reception of the news which annihilated the
      marriage prospect that her father&rsquo;s own lips had placed before her not a
      month since, had bewildered and dismayed them alike. They had summoned
      their courage to meet the shock of her passionate grief, or to face the
      harder trial of witnessing her speechless despair. But they were not
      prepared for her invincible resolution to read the Instructions; for the
      terrible questions which she had put to the lawyer; for her immovable
      determination to fix all the circumstances in her mind, under which
      Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s decision had been pronounced. There she stood at the
      window, an unfathomable mystery to the sister who had never been parted
      from her, to the governess who had trained her from a child. Miss Garth
      remembered the dark doubts which had crossed her mind on the day when she
      and Magdalen had met in the garden. Norah looked forward to the coming
      time, with the first serious dread of it on her sister&rsquo;s account which she
      had felt yet. Both had hitherto remained passive, in despair of knowing
      what to do. Both were now silent, in despair of knowing what to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Pendril patiently and kindly helped them, by returning to the subject
      of their future plans for the second time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to press any business matters on your attention,&rdquo; he said,
      &ldquo;when you are necessarily unfitted to deal with them. But I must take my
      instructions back to London with me to night. With reference, in the first
      place, to the disgraceful pecuniary offer, to which I have already
      alluded. The younger Miss Vanstone having read the Instructions, needs no
      further information from my lips. The elder will, I hope, excuse me if I
      tell her (what I should be ashamed to tell her, but that it is a matter of
      necessity), that Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s provision for his brother&rsquo;s
      children begins and ends with an offer to each of them of one hundred
      pounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah&rsquo;s face crimsoned with indignation. She started to her feet, as if
      Michael Vanstone had been present in the room, and had personally insulted
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said the lawyer, wishing to spare her; &ldquo;I may tell Mr. Michael
      Vanstone you refuse the money.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell him,&rdquo; she broke out passionately, &ldquo;if I was starving by the
      roadside, I wouldn&rsquo;t touch a farthing of it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I notify your refusal also?&rdquo; asked Mr. Pendril, speaking to
      Magdalen next.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned round from the window&mdash;but kept her face in shadow, by
      standing close against it with her back to the light.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell him, on my part,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;to think again before he starts me in
      life with a hundred pounds. I will give him time to think.&rdquo; She spoke
      those strange words with a marked emphasis; and turning back quickly to
      the window, hid her face from the observation of every one in the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You both refuse the offer,&rdquo; said Mr. Pendril, taking out his pencil, and
      making his professional note of the decision. As he shut up his
      pocketbook, he glanced toward Magdalen doubtfully. She had roused in him
      the latent distrust which is a lawyer&rsquo;s second nature: he had his
      suspicions of her looks; he had his suspicions of her language. Her sister
      seemed to have mere influence over her than Miss Garth. He resolved to
      speak privately to her sister before he went away.
    </p>
    <p>
      While the idea was passing through his mind, his attention was claimed by
      another question from Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is he an old man?&rdquo; she asked, suddenly, without turning round from the
      window.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you mean Mr. Michael Vanstone, he is seventy-five or seventy-six years
      of age.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You spoke of his son a little while since. Has he any other sons&mdash;or
      daughters?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you know anything of his wife?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has been dead for many years.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause. &ldquo;Why do you ask these questions?&rdquo; said Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, quietly; &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t ask any more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For the third time, Mr. Pendril returned to the business of the interview.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The servants must not be forgotten,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;They must be settled with
      and discharged: I will give them the necessary explanation before I leave.
      As for the house, no questions connected with it need trouble you. The
      carriages and horses, the furniture and plate, and so on, must simply be
      left on the premises to await Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s further orders. But
      any possessions, Miss Vanstone, personally belonging to you or to your
      sister&mdash;jewelry and dresses, and any little presents which may have
      been made to you&mdash;are entirely at your disposal. With regard to the
      time of your departure, I understand that a month or more will elapse
      before Mr. Michael Vanstone can leave Zurich; and I am sure I only do his
      solicitor justice in saying&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, Mr. Pendril,&rdquo; interposed Norah; &ldquo;I think I understand, from
      what you have just said, that our house and everything in it belongs to&mdash;?&rdquo;
       She stopped, as if the mere utterance of the man&rsquo;s name was abhorrent to
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To Michael Vanstone,&rdquo; said Mr. Pendril. &ldquo;The house goes to him with the
      rest of the property.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I, for one, am ready to leave it tomorrow!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen started at the window, as her sister spoke, and looked at Mr.
      Clare, with the first open signs of anxiety and alarm which she had shown
      yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be angry with me,&rdquo; she whispered, stooping over the old man with a
      sudden humility of look, and a sudden nervousness of manner. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t go
      without seeing Frank first!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall see him,&rdquo; replied Mr. Clare. &ldquo;I am here to speak to you about
      it, when the business is done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is quite unnecessary to hurry your departure, as you propose,&rdquo;
       continued Mr. Pendril, addressing Norah. &ldquo;I can safely assure you that a
      week hence will be time enough.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If this is Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s house,&rdquo; repeated Norah; &ldquo;I am ready to
      leave it tomorrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She impatiently quitted her chair and seated herself further away on the
      sofa. As she laid her hand on the back of it, her face changed. There, at
      the head of the sofa, were the cushions which had supported her mother
      when she lay down for the last time to repose. There, at the foot of the
      sofa, was the clumsy, old-fashioned arm-chair, which had been her father&rsquo;s
      favorite seat on rainy days, when she and her sister used to amuse him at
      the piano opposite, by playing his favorite tunes. A heavy sigh, which she
      tried vainly to repress, burst from her lips. &ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; she thought, &ldquo;I had
      forgotten these old friends! How shall we part from them when the time
      comes!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I inquire, Miss Vanstone, whether you and your sister have formed any
      definite plans for the future?&rdquo; asked Mr. Pendril. &ldquo;Have you thought of
      any place of residence?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I may take it on myself, sir,&rdquo; said Miss Garth, &ldquo;to answer your question
      for them. When they leave this house, they leave it with me. My home is
      their home, and my bread is their bread. Their parents honored me, trusted
      me, and loved me. For twelve happy years they never let me remember that I
      was their governess; they only let me know myself as their companion and
      their friend. My memory of them is the memory of unvarying gentleness and
      generosity; and my life shall pay the debt of my gratitude to their orphan
      children.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Norah rose hastily from the sofa; Magdalen impetuously left the window.
      For once, there was no contrast in the conduct of the sisters. For once,
      the same impulse moved their hearts, the same earnest feeling inspired
      their words. Miss Garth waited until the first outburst of emotion had
      passed away; then rose, and, taking Norah and Magdalen each by the hand,
      addressed herself to Mr. Pendril and Mr. Clare. She spoke with perfect
      self-possession; strong in her artless unconsciousness of her own good
      action.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Even such a trifle as my own story,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;is of some importance at
      such a moment as this. I wish you both, gentlemen, to understand that I am
      not promising more to the daughters of your old friend than I can perform.
      When I first came to this house, I entered it under such independent
      circumstances as are not common in the lives of governesses. In my younger
      days, I was associated in teaching with my elder sister: we established a
      school in London, which grew to be a large and prosperous one. I only left
      it, and became a private governess, because the heavy responsibility of
      the school was more than my strength could bear. I left my share in the
      profits untouched, and I possess a pecuniary interest in our establishment
      to this day. That is my story, in few words. When we leave this house, I
      propose that we shall go back to the school in London, which is still
      prosperously directed by my elder sister. We can live there as quietly as
      we please, until time has helped us to bear our affliction better than we
      can bear it now. If Norah&rsquo;s and Magdalen&rsquo;s altered prospects oblige them
      to earn their own independence, I can help them to earn it, as a
      gentleman&rsquo;s daughters should. The best families in this land are glad to
      ask my sister&rsquo;s advice where the interests of their children&rsquo;s
      home-training are concerned; and I answer, beforehand, for her hearty
      desire to serve Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters, as I answer for my own. That is
      the future which my gratitude to their father and mother, and my love for
      themselves, now offers to them. If you think my proposal, gentlemen, a fit
      and fair proposal&mdash;and I see in your faces that you do&mdash;let us
      not make the hard necessities of our position harder still, by any useless
      delay in meeting them at once. Let us do what we must do; let us act on
      Norah&rsquo;s decision, and leave this house to-morrow. You mentioned the
      servants just now, Mr. Pendril: I am ready to call them together in the
      next room, and to assist you in the settlement of their claims, whenever
      you please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Without waiting for the lawyer&rsquo;s answer, without leaving the sisters time
      to realize their own terrible situation, she moved at once toward the
      door. It was her wise resolution to meet the coming trial by doing much
      and saying little. Before she could leave the room, Mr. Clare followed,
      and stopped her on the threshold.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I never envied a woman&rsquo;s feelings before,&rdquo; said the old man. &ldquo;It may
      surprise you to hear it; but I envy yours. Wait! I have something more to
      say. There is an obstacle still left&mdash;the everlasting obstacle of
      Frank. Help me to sweep him off. Take the elder sister along with you and
      the lawyer, and leave me here to have it out with the younger. I want to
      see what metal she&rsquo;s really made of.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While Mr. Clare was addressing these words to Miss Garth, Mr. Pendril had
      taken the opportunity of speaking to Norah. &ldquo;Before I go back to town,&rdquo; he
      said, &ldquo;I should like to have a word with you in private. From what has
      passed today, Miss Vanstone, I have formed a very high opinion of your
      discretion; and, as an old friend of your father&rsquo;s, I want to take the
      freedom of speaking to you about your sister.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before Norah could answer, she was summoned, in compliance with Mr.
      Clare&rsquo;s request, to the conference with the servants. Mr. Pendril followed
      Miss Garth, as a matter of course. When the three were out in the hall,
      Mr. Clare re-entered the room, closed the door, and signed peremptorily to
      Magdalen to take a chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      She obeyed him in silence. He took a turn up and down the room, with his
      hands in the side-pockets of the long, loose, shapeless coat which he
      habitually wore.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How old are you?&rdquo; he said, stopping suddenly, and speaking to her with
      the whole breadth of the room between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was eighteen last birthday,&rdquo; she answered, humbly, without looking up
      at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have shown extraordinary courage for a girl of eighteen. Have you got
      any of that courage left?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She clasped her hands together, and wrung them hard. A few tears gathered
      in her eyes, and rolled slowly over her cheeks.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t give Frank up,&rdquo; she said, faintly. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t care for me, I
      know; but you used to care for my father. Will you try to be kind to me
      for my father&rsquo;s sake?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The last words died away in a whisper; she could say no more. Never had
      she felt the illimitable power which a woman&rsquo;s love possesses of absorbing
      into itself every other event, every other joy or sorrow of her life, as
      she felt it then. Never had she so tenderly associated Frank with the
      memory of her lost parents, as at that moment. Never had the impenetrable
      atmosphere of illusion through which women behold the man of their choice&mdash;the
      atmosphere which had blinded her to all that was weak, selfish, and mean
      in Frank&rsquo;s nature&mdash;surrounded him with a brighter halo than now, when
      she was pleading with the father for the possession of the son. &ldquo;Oh, don&rsquo;t
      ask me to give him up!&rdquo; she said, trying to take courage, and shuddering
      from head to foot. In the next instant, she flew to the opposite extreme,
      with the suddenness of a flash of lightning. &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t give him up!&rdquo; she
      burst out violently. &ldquo;No! not if a thousand fathers ask me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am one father,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare. &ldquo;And I don&rsquo;t ask you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In the first astonishment and delight of hearing those unexpected words,
      she started to her feet, crossed the room, and tried to throw her arms
      round his neck. She might as well have attempted to move the house from
      its foundations. He took her by the shoulders and put her back in her
      chair. His inexorable eyes looked her into submission; and his lean
      forefinger shook at her warningly, as if he was quieting a fractious
      child.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hug Frank,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;don&rsquo;t hug me. I haven&rsquo;t done with you yet; when I
      have, you may shake hands with me, if you like. Wait, and compose
      yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left her. His hands went back into his pockets, and his monotonous
      march up and down the room began again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ready?&rdquo; he asked, stopping short after a while. She tried to answer.
      &ldquo;Take two minutes more,&rdquo; he said, and resumed his walk with the regularity
      of clock-work. &ldquo;These are the creatures,&rdquo; he thought to himself, &ldquo;into
      whose keeping men otherwise sensible give the happiness of their lives. Is
      there any other object in creation, I wonder, which answers its end as
      badly as a woman does?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped before her once more. Her breathing was easier; the dark flush
      on her face was dying out again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ready?&rdquo; he repeated. &ldquo;Yes; ready at last. Listen to me; and let&rsquo;s get it
      over. I don&rsquo;t ask you to give Frank up. I ask you to wait.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will wait,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Patiently, willingly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you make Frank wait?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you send him to China?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her head drooped upon her bosom, and she clasped her hands again, in
      silence. Mr. Clare saw where the difficulty lay, and marched straight up
      to it on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t pretend to enter into your feelings for Frank, or Frank&rsquo;s for
      you,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The subject doesn&rsquo;t interest me. But I <i>do</i> pretend
      to state two plain truths. It is one plain truth that you can&rsquo;t be married
      till you have money enough to pay for the roof that shelters you, the
      clothes that cover you, and the victuals you eat. It is another plain
      truth that you can&rsquo;t find the money; that I can&rsquo;t find the money; and that
      Frank&rsquo;s only chance of finding it, is going to China. If I tell him to go,
      he&rsquo;ll sit in a corner and cry. If I insist, he&rsquo;ll say Yes, and deceive me.
      If I go a step further, and see him on board ship with my own eyes, he&rsquo;ll
      slip off in the pilot&rsquo;s boat, and sneak back secretly to you. That&rsquo;s his
      disposition.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not his disposition; it&rsquo;s his love for Me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Call it what you like,&rdquo; retorted Mr. Clare. &ldquo;Sneak or Sweetheart &mdash;he&rsquo;s
      too slippery, in either capacity, for my fingers to hold him. My shutting
      the door won&rsquo;t keep him from coming back. Your shutting the door will.
      Have you the courage to shut it? Are you fond enough of him not to stand
      in his light?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Fond! I would die for him!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you send him to China?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She sighed bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have a little pity for me,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I have lost my father; I have lost
      my mother; I have lost my fortune&mdash;and now I am to lose Frank. You
      don&rsquo;t like women, I know; but try to help me with a little pity. I don&rsquo;t
      say it&rsquo;s not for his own interests to send him to China; I only say it&rsquo;s
      hard&mdash;very, very hard on <i>me</i>.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare had been deaf to her violence, insensible to her caresses, blind
      to her tears; but under the tough integument of his philosophy he had a
      heart&mdash;and it answered that hopeless appeal; it felt those touching
      words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t deny that your case is a hard one,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to
      make it harder. I only ask you to do in Frank&rsquo;s interests what Frank is
      too weak to do for himself. It&rsquo;s no fault of yours; it&rsquo;s no fault of mine&mdash;but
      it&rsquo;s not the less true that the fortune you were to have brought him has
      changed owners.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She suddenly looked up, with a furtive light in her eyes, with a
      threatening smile on her lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It may change owners again,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare saw the alteration in her expression, and heard the tones of her
      voice. But the words were spoken low; spoken as if to herself&mdash;they
      failed to reach him across the breadth of the room. He stopped instantly
      in his walk and asked what she had said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing,&rdquo; she answered, turning her head away toward the window, and
      looking out mechanically at the falling rain. &ldquo;Only my own thoughts.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare resumed his walk, and returned to his subject.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s your interest,&rdquo; he went on, &ldquo;as well as Frank&rsquo;s interest, that he
      should go. He may make money enough to marry you in China; he can&rsquo;t make
      it here. If he stops at home, he&rsquo;ll be the ruin of both of you. He&rsquo;ll shut
      his eyes to every consideration of prudence, and pester you to marry him;
      and when he has carried his point, he will be the first to turn round
      afterward and complain that you&rsquo;re a burden on him. Hear me out! You&rsquo;re in
      love with Frank&mdash;I&rsquo;m not, and I know him. Put you two together often
      enough; give him time enough to hug, cry, pester, and plead; and I&rsquo;ll tell
      you what the end will be&mdash;you&rsquo;ll marry him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He had touched the right string at last. It rung back in answer before he
      could add another word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know me,&rdquo; she said, firmly. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know what I can suffer
      for Frank&rsquo;s sake. He shall never marry me till I can be what my father
      said I should be&mdash;the making of his fortune. He shall take no burden,
      when he takes me; I promise you that! I&rsquo;ll be the good angel of Frank&rsquo;s
      life; I&rsquo;ll not go a penniless girl to him, and drag him down.&rdquo; She
      abruptly left her seat, advanced a few steps toward Mr. Clare, and stopped
      in the middle of the room. Her arms fell helpless on either side of her,
      and she burst into tears. &ldquo;He shall go,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;If my heart breaks in
      doing it, I&rsquo;ll tell him to-morrow that we must say Good-by!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Clare at once advanced to meet her, and held out his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll help you,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Frank shall hear every word that has passed
      between us. When he comes to-morrow he shall know, beforehand, that he
      comes to say Good-by.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She took his hand in both her own&mdash;hesitated&mdash;looked at him&mdash;and
      pressed it to her bosom. &ldquo;May I ask a favor of you, before you go?&rdquo; she
      said, timidly. He tried to take his hand from her; but she knew her
      advantage, and held it fast. &ldquo;Suppose there should be some change for the
      better?&rdquo; she went on. &ldquo;Suppose I could come to Frank, as my fat her said
      I should come to him&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before she could complete the question, Mr. Clare made a second effort and
      withdrew his hand. &ldquo;As your father said you should come to him?&rdquo; he
      repeated, looking at her attentively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;Strange things happen sometimes. If strange things
      happen to me will you let Frank come back before the five years are out?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      What did she mean? Was she clinging desperately to the hope of melting
      Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s heart? Mr. Clare could draw no other conclusion from
      what she had just said to him. At the beginning of the interview he would
      have roughly dispelled her delusion. At the end of the interview he left
      her compassionately in possession of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are hoping against all hope,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;but if it gives you courage,
      hope on. If this impossible good fortune of yours ever happens, tell me,
      and Frank shall come back. In the meantime&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the meantime,&rdquo; she interposed sadly, &ldquo;you have my promise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Once more Mr. Clare&rsquo;s sharp eyes searched her face attentively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will trust your promise,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You shall see Frank to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went back thoughtfully to her chair, and sat down again in silence.
      Mr. Clare made for the door before any formal leave-taking could pass
      between them. &ldquo;Deep!&rdquo; he thought to himself, as he looked back at her
      before he went out; &ldquo;only eighteen; and too deep for my sounding!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In the hall he found Norah, waiting anxiously to hear what had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it all over?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Does Frank go to China?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be careful how you manage that sister of yours,&rdquo; said Mr. Clare, without
      noticing the question. &ldquo;She has one great misfortune to contend with:
      she&rsquo;s not made for the ordinary jog-trot of a woman&rsquo;s life. I don&rsquo;t say I
      can see straight to the end of the good or evil in her&mdash;I only warn
      you, her future will be no common one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      An hour later, Mr. Pendril left the house; and, by that night&rsquo;s post, Miss
      Garth dispatched a letter to her sister in London.
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE FIRST SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <h4>
      I.
    </h4>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah Vanstone to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, Kensington,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;August 14th, 1846.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MR. PENDRIL&mdash;The date of this letter will show you that the
      last of many hard partings is over. We have left Combe-Raven; we have said
      farewell to home.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have been thinking seriously of what you said to me on Wednesday,
      before you went back to town. I entirely agree with you that Miss Garth is
      more shaken by all she has gone through for our sakes than she is herself
      willing to admit; and that it is my duty, for the future, to spare her all
      the anxiety that I can on the subject of my sister and myself. This is
      very little to do for our dearest friend, for our second mother. Such as
      it is, I will do it with all my heart.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But, forgive me for saying that I am as far as ever from agreeing with
      you about Magdalen. I am so sensible, in our helpless position, of the
      importance of your assistance; so anxious to be worthy of the interest of
      my father&rsquo;s trusted adviser and oldest friend, that I feel really and
      truly disappointed with myself for differing with you&mdash;and yet I do
      differ. Magdalen is very strange, very unaccountable, to those who don&rsquo;t
      know her intimately. I can understand that she has innocently misled you;
      and that she has presented herself, perhaps, under her least favorable
      aspect. But that the clew to her language and her conduct on Wednesday
      last is to be found in such a feeling toward the man who has ruined us, as
      the feeling at which you hinted, is what I can not and will not believe of
      my sister. If you knew, as I do, what a noble nature she has, you would
      not be surprised at this obstinate resistance of mine to your opinion.
      Will you try to alter it? I don&rsquo;t mind what Mr. Clare says; he believes in
      nothing. But I attach a very serious importance to what <i>you</i> say;
      and, kind as I know your motives to be, it distresses me to think you are
      doing Magdalen an injustice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Having relieved my mind of this confession, I may now come to the proper
      object of my letter. I promised, if you could not find leisure time to
      visit us to-day, to write and tell you all that happened after you left
      us. The day has passed without our seeing you. So I open my writing-case
      and perform my promise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to say that three of the women-servants&mdash;the house-maid,
      the kitchen-maid, and even our own maid (to whom I am sure we have always
      been kind)&mdash;took advantage of your having paid them their wages to
      pack up and go as soon as your back was turned. They came to say good-by
      with as much ceremony and as little feeling as if they were leaving the
      house under ordinary circumstances. The cook, for all her violent temper,
      behaved very differently: she sent up a message to say that she would stop
      and help us to the last. And Thomas (who has never yet been in any other
      place than ours) spoke so gratefully of my dear father&rsquo;s unvarying
      kindness to him, and asked so anxiously to be allowed to go on serving us
      while his little savings lasted, that Magdalen and I forgot all formal
      considerations and both shook hands with him. The poor lad went out of the
      room crying. I wish him well; I hope he will find a kind master and a good
      place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The long, quiet, rainy evening out-of-doors&mdash;our last evening at
      Combe-Raven&mdash;was a sad trial to us. I think winter-time would have
      weighed less on our spirits; the drawn curtains and the bright lamps, and
      the companionable fires would have helped us. We were only five in the
      house altogether&mdash;after having once been so many! I can&rsquo;t tell you
      how dreary the gray daylight looked, toward seven o&rsquo;clock, in the lonely
      rooms, and on the noiseless staircase. Surely, the prejudice in favor of
      long summer evenings is the prejudice of happy people? We did our best. We
      kept ourselves employed, and Miss Garth helped us. The prospect of
      preparing for our departure, which had seemed so dreadful earlier in the
      day, altered into the prospect of a refuge from ourselves as the evening
      came on. We each tried at first to pack up in our own rooms&mdash;but the
      loneliness was more than we could bear. We carried all our possessions
      downstairs, and heaped them on the large dining-table, and so made our
      preparations together in the same room. I am sure we have taken nothing
      away which does not properly belong to us.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Having already mentioned to you my own conviction that Magdalen was not
      herself when you saw her on Wednesday, I feel tempted to stop here and
      give you an instance in proof of what I say. The little circumstance
      happened on Wednesday night, just before we went up to our rooms.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After we had packed our dresses and our birthday presents, our books and
      our music, we began to sort our letters, which had got confused from being
      placed on the table together. Some of my letters were mixed with
      Magdalen&rsquo;s, and some of hers with mine. Among these last I found a card,
      which had been given to my sister early in the year by an actor who
      managed an amateur theatrical performance in which she took a part. The
      man had given her the card, containing his name and address, in the belief
      that she would be invited to many more amusements of the same kind, and in
      the hope that she would recommend him as a superintendent on future
      occasions. I only relate these trifling particulars to show you how little
      worth keeping such a card could be, in such circumstances as ours.
      Naturally enough, I threw it away from me across the table, meaning to
      throw it on the floor. It fell short, close to the place in which Magdalen
      was sitting. She took it up, looked at it, and immediately declared that
      she would not have had this perfectly worthless thing destroyed for the
      world. She was almost angry with me for having thrown it away; almost
      angry with Miss Garth for asking what she could possibly want with it!
      Could there be any plainer proof than this that our misfortunes&mdash;falling
      so much more heavily on her than on me&mdash;have quite unhinged her, and
      worn her out? Surely her words and looks are not to be interpreted against
      her, when she is not sufficiently mistress of herself to exert her natural
      judgment&mdash;when she shows the unreasonable petulance of a child on a
      question which is not of the slightest importance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A little after eleven we went upstairs to try if we could get some rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I drew aside the curtain of my window and looked out. Oh, what a cruel
      last night it was: no moon, no stars; such deep darkness that not one of
      the dear familiar objects in the garden was visible when I looked for
      them; such deep stillness that even my own movements about the room almost
      frightened me! I tried to lie down and sleep, but the sense of loneliness
      came again and quite overpowered me. You will say I am old enough, at
      six-and-twenty, to have exerted more control over myself. I hardly know
      how it happened, but I stole into Magdalen&rsquo;s room, just as I used to steal
      into it years and years ago, when we were children. She was not in bed;
      she was sitting with her writing materials before her, thinking. I said I
      wanted to be with her the last night; and she kissed me, and told me to
      lie down, and promised soon to follow me. My mind was a little quieted and
      I fell asleep. It was daylight when I woke&mdash;and the first sight I saw
      was Magdalen, still sitting in the chair, and still thinking. She had
      never been to bed; she had not slept all through the night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;I shall sleep when we have left Combe-Raven,&rsquo; she said. &lsquo;I shall be
      better when it is all over, and I have bid Frank good-by.&rsquo; She had in her
      hand our father&rsquo;s will, and the letter he wrote to you; and when she had
      done speaking, she gave them into my possession. I was the eldest (she
      said), and those last precious relics ought to be in my keeping. I tried
      to propose to her that we should divide them; but she shook her head. &lsquo;I
      have copied for myself,&rsquo; was her answer, &lsquo;all that he says of us in the
      will, and all that he says in the letter.&rsquo; She told me this, and took from
      her bosom a tiny white silk bag, which she had made in the night, and in
      which she had put the extracts, so as to keep them always about her. &lsquo;This
      tells me in his own words what his last wishes were for both of us,&rsquo; she
      said; &lsquo;and this is all I want for the future.&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;These are trifles to dwell on; and I am almost surprised at myself for
      not feeling ashamed to trouble you with them. But, since I have known what
      your early connection was with my father and mother, I have learned to
      think of you (and, I suppose, to write to you) as an old friend. And,
      besides, I have it so much at heart to change your opinion of Magdalen,
      that I can&rsquo;t help telling you the smallest things about her which may, in
      my judgment, end in making you think of her as I do.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When breakfast-time came (on Thursday morning), we were surprised to find
      a strange letter on the table. Perhaps I ought to mention it to you, in
      case of any future necessity for your interference. It was addressed to
      Miss Garth, on paper with the deepest mourning-border round it; and the
      writer was the same man who followed us on our way home from a walk one
      day last spring&mdash;Captain Wragge. His object appears to be to assert
      once more his audacious claim to a family connection with my poor mother,
      under cover of a letter of condolence; which it is an insolence in such a
      person to have written at all. He expresses as much sympathy&mdash;on his
      discovery of our affliction in the newspaper&mdash;as if he had been
      really intimate with us; and he begs to know, in a postscript (being
      evidently in total ignorance of all that has really happened), whether it
      is thought desirable that he should be present, among the other relatives,
      at the reading of the will! The address he gives, at which letters will
      reach him for the next fortnight, is, &lsquo;Post-office, Birmingham.&rsquo; This is
      all I have to tell you on the subject. Both the letter and the writer seem
      to me to be equally unworthy of the slightest notice, on our part or on
      yours.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After breakfast Magdalen left us, and went by herself into the
      morning-room. The weather being still showery, we had arranged that
      Francis Clare should see her in that room, when he presented himself to
      take his leave. I was upstairs when he came; and I remained upstairs for
      more than half an hour afterward, sadly anxious, as you may well believe,
      on Magdalen&rsquo;s account.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At the end of the half-hour or more, I came downstairs. As I reached the
      landing I suddenly heard her voice, raised entreatingly, and calling on
      him by his name&mdash;then loud sobs&mdash;then a frightful laughing and
      screaming, both together, that rang through the house. I instantly ran
      into the room, and found Magdalen on the sofa in violent hysterics, and
      Frank standing staring at her, with a lowering, angry face, biting his
      nails.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I felt so indignant&mdash;without knowing plainly why, for I was
      ignorant, of course, of what had passed at the interview&mdash;that I took
      Mr. Francis Clare by the shoulders and pushed him out of the room. I am
      careful to tell you how I acted toward him, and what led to it; because I
      understand that he is excessively offended with me, and that he is likely
      to mention elsewhere what he calls my unladylike violence toward him. If
      he should mention it to you, I am anxious to acknowledge, of my own
      accord, that I forgot myself&mdash;not, I hope you will think, without
      some provocation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I pushed him into the hall, leaving Magdalen, for the moment, to Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s care. Instead of going away, he sat down sulkily on one of the
      hall chairs. &lsquo;May I ask the reason of this extraordinary violence?&rsquo; he
      inquired, with an injured look. &lsquo;No,&rsquo; I said. &lsquo;You will be good enough to
      imagine the reason for yourself, and to leave us immediately, if you
      please.&rsquo; He sat doggedly in the chair, biting his nails and considering.
      &lsquo;What have I done to be treated in this unfeeling manner?&rsquo; he asked, after
      a while. &lsquo;I can enter into no discussion with you,&rsquo; I answered; &lsquo;I can
      only request you to leave us. If you persist in waiting to see my sister
      again, I will go to the cottage myself and appeal to your father.&rsquo; He got
      up in a great hurry at those words. &lsquo;I have been infamously used in this
      business,&rsquo; he said. &lsquo;All the hardships and the sacrifices have fallen to
      my share. I&rsquo;m the only one among you who has any heart: all the rest are
      as hard as stones&mdash;Magdalen included. In one breath she says she
      loves me, and in another she tells me to go to China. What have I done to
      be treated with this heartless inconsistency? I am consistent myself&mdash;I
      only want to stop at home&mdash;and (what&rsquo;s the consequence?) you&rsquo;re all
      against me!&rsquo; In that manner he grumbled his way down the steps, and so I
      saw the last of him. This was all that passed between us. If he gives you
      any other account of it, what he says will be false. He made no attempt to
      return. An hour afterward his father came alone to say good-by. He saw
      Miss Garth and me, but not Magdalen; and he told us he would take the
      necessary measures, with your assistance, for having his son properly
      looked after in London, and seen safely on board the vessel when the time
      came. It was a short visit, and a sad leave-taking. Even Mr. Clare was
      sorry, though he tried hard to hide it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We had barely two hours, after Mr. Clare had left us, before it would be
      time to go. I went back to Magdalen, and found her quieter and better,
      though terribly pale and exhausted, and oppressed, as I fancied, by
      thoughts which she could not prevail on herself to communicate. She would
      tell me nothing then&mdash;she has told me nothing since&mdash;of what
      passed between herself and Francis Clare. When I spoke of him angrily
      (feeling as I did that he had distressed and tortured her, when she ought
      to have had all the encouragement and comfort from him that man could
      give), she refused to hear me: she made the kindest allowances and the
      sweetest excuses for him, and laid all the blame of the dreadful state in
      which I had found her entirely on herself. Was I wrong in telling you that
      she had a noble nature? And won&rsquo;t you alter your opinion when you read
      these lines?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We had no friends to come and bid us good-by; and our few acquaintances
      were too far from us&mdash;perhaps too indifferent about us&mdash;to call.
      We employed the little leisure left in going over the house together for
      the last time. We took leave of our old schoolroom, our bedrooms, the room
      where our mother died, the little study where our father used to settle
      his accounts and write his letters&mdash;feeling toward them, in our
      forlorn condition, as other girls might have felt at parting with old
      friends. From the house, in a gleam of fine weather, we went into the
      garden, and gathered our last nosegay; with the purpose of drying the
      flowers when they begin to wither, and keeping them in remembrance of the
      happy days that are gone. When we had said good-by to the garden, there
      was only half an hour left. We went together to the grave; we knelt down,
      side by side, in silence, and kissed the sacred ground. I thought my heart
      would have broken. August was the month of my mother&rsquo;s birthday; and, this
      time last year, my father and Magdalen and I were all consulting in secret
      what present we could make to surprise her with on the birthday morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you had seen how Magdalen suffered, you would never doubt her again. I
      had to take her from the last resting-place of our father and mother
      almost by force. Before we were out of the churchyard she broke from me
      and ran back. She dropped on her knees at the grave; tore up from it
      passionately a handful of grass; and said something to herself, at the
      same moment, which, though I followed her instantly, I did not get near
      enough to hear. She turned on me in such a frenzied manner, when I tried
      to raise her from the ground&mdash;she looked at me with such a fearful
      wildness in her eyes&mdash;that I felt absolutely terrified at the sight
      of her. To my relief, the paroxysm left her as suddenly as it had come.
      She thrust away the tuft of grass into the bosom of her dress, and took my
      arm and hurried with me out of the churchyard. I asked her why she had
      gone back&mdash;I asked what those words were which she had spoken at the
      grave. &lsquo;A promise to our dead father,&rsquo; she answered, with a momentary
      return of the wild look and the frenzied manner which had startled me
      already. I was afraid to agitate her by saying more; I left all other
      questions to be asked at a fitter and a quieter time. You will understand
      from this how terribly she suffers, how wildly and strangely she acts
      under violent agitation; and you will not interpret against her what she
      said or did when you saw her on Wednesday last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We only returned to the house in time to hasten away from it to the
      train. Perhaps it was better for us so&mdash;better that we had only a
      moment left to look back before the turn in the road hid the last of
      Combe-Raven from our view. There was not a soul we knew at the station;
      nobody to stare at us, nobody to wish us good-by. The rain came on again
      as we took our seats in the train. What we felt at the sight of the
      railway&mdash;what horrible remembrances it forced on our minds of the
      calamity which has made us fatherless&mdash;I cannot, and dare not, tell
      you. I have tried anxiously not to write this letter in a gloomy tone; not
      to return all your kindness to us by distressing you with our grief.
      Perhaps I have dwelt too long already on the little story of our parting
      from home? I can only say, in excuse, that my heart is full of it; and
      what is not in my heart my pen won&rsquo;t write.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have been so short a time in our new abode that I have nothing more to
      tell you&mdash;except that Miss Garth&rsquo;s sister has received us with the
      heartiest kindness. She considerately leaves us to ourselves, until we are
      fitter than we are now to think of our future plans, and to arrange as we
      best can for earning our own living. The house is so large, and the
      position of our rooms has been so thoughtfully chosen, that I should
      hardly know&mdash;except when I hear the laughing of the younger girls in
      the garden&mdash;that we were living in a school.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With kindest and best wishes from Miss Garth and my sister, believe me,
      dear Mr. Pendril, gratefully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH VANSTONE.&rdquo; II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Miss Garth to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, Kensington,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;September 23d, 1846.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR SIR&mdash;I write these lines in such misery of mind as no words
      can describe. Magdalen has deserted us. At an early hour this morning she
      secretly left the house, and she has not been heard of since.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I would come and speak to you personally; but I dare not leave Norah. I
      must try to control myself; I must try to write.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing happened yesterday to prepare me or to prepare Norah for this
      last&mdash;I had almost said, this worst&mdash;of all our afflictions. The
      only alteration we either of us noticed in the unhappy girl was an
      alteration for the better when we parted for the night. She kissed me,
      which she has not done latterly; and she burst out crying when she
      embraced her sister next. We had so little suspicion of the truth that we
      thought these signs of renewed tenderness and affection a promise of
      better things for the future.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This morning, when her sister went into her room, it was empty, and a
      note in her handwriting, addressed to Norah, was lying on the
      dressing-table. I cannot prevail on Norah to part with the note; I can
      only send you the inclosed copy of it. You will see that it affords no
      clew to the direction she has taken.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Knowing the value of time, in this dreadful emergency, I examined her
      room, and (with my sister&rsquo;s help) questioned the servants immediately on
      the news of her absence reaching me. Her wardrobe was empty; and all her
      boxes but one, which she has evidently taken away with her, are empty,
      too. We are of opinion that she has privately turned her dresses and
      jewelry into money; that she had the one trunk she took with her removed
      from the house yesterday; and that she left us this morning on foot. The
      answers given by one of the servants are so unsatisfactory that we believe
      the woman has been bribed to assist her; and has managed all those
      arrangements for her flight which she could not have safely undertaken by
      herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of the immediate object with which she has left us, I entertain no doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have reasons (which I can tell you at a fitter time) for feeling
      assured that she has gone away with the intention of trying her fortune on
      the stage. She has in her possession the card of an actor by profession,
      who superintended an amateur theatrical performance at Clifton, in which
      she took part; and to him she has gone to help her. I saw the card at the
      time, and I know the actor&rsquo;s name to be Huxtable. The address I cannot
      call to mind quite so correctly; but I am almost sure it was at some
      theatrical place in Bow Street, Covent Garden. Let me entreat you not to
      lose a moment in sending to make the necessary inquiries; the first trace
      of her will, I firmly believe, be found at that address.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If we had nothing worse to dread than her attempting to go on the stage,
      I should not feel the distress and dismay which now overpower me. Hundreds
      of other girls have acted as recklessly as she has acted, and have not
      ended ill after all. But my fears for Magdalen do not begin and end with
      the risk she is running at present.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There has been something weighing on her mind ever since we left
      Combe-Raven&mdash;weighing far more heavily for the last six weeks than at
      first. Until the period when Francis Clare left England, I am persuaded
      she was secretly sustained by the hope that he would contrive to see her
      again. From the day when she knew that the measures you had taken for
      preventing this had succeeded; from the day when she was assured that the
      ship had really taken him away, nothing has roused, nothing has interested
      her. She has given herself up, more and more hopelessly, to her own
      brooding thoughts; thoughts which I believe first entered her mind on the
      day when the utter ruin of the prospects on which her marriage depended
      was made known to her. She has formed some desperate project of contesting
      the possession of her father&rsquo;s fortune with Michael Vanstone; and the
      stage career which she has gone away to try is nothing more than a means
      of freeing herself from all home dependence, and of enabling her to run
      what mad risks she pleases, in perfect security from all home control.
      What it costs me to write of her in these terms, I must leave you to
      imagine. The time has gone by when any consideration of distress to my own
      feelings can weigh with me. Whatever I can say which will open your eyes
      to the real danger, and strengthen your conviction of the instant
      necessity of averting it, I say in despite of myself, without hesitation
      and without reserve.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One word more, and I have done.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The last time you were so good as to come to this house, do you remember
      how Magdalen embarrassed and distressed us by questioning you about her
      right to bear her father&rsquo;s name? Do you remember her persisting in her
      inquiries, until she had forced you to acknowledge that, legally speaking,
      she and her sister had No Name? I venture to remind you of this, because
      you have the affairs of hundreds of clients to think of, and you might
      well have forgotten the circumstance. Whatever natural reluctance she
      might otherwise have had to deceiving us, and degrading herself, by the
      use of an assumed name, that conversation with you is certain to have
      removed. We must discover her by personal description&mdash;we can trace
      her in no other way.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can think of nothing more to guide your decision in our deplorable
      emergency. For God&rsquo;s sake, let no expense and no efforts be spared. My
      letter ought to reach you by ten o&rsquo;clock this morning, at the latest. Let
      me have one line in answer, to say you will act instantly for the best. My
      only hope of quieting Norah is to show her a word of encouragement from
      your pen. Believe me, dear sir, yours sincerely and obliged,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH.&rdquo; III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Magdalen to Norah (inclosed in the preceding Letter).</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DARLING&mdash;Try to forgive me. I have struggled against myself till
      I am worn out in the effort. I am the wretchedest of living creatures. Our
      quiet life here maddens me; I can bear it no longer; I must go. If you
      knew what my thoughts are; if you knew how hard I have fought against
      them, and how horribly they have gone on haunting me in the lonely quiet
      of this house, you would pity and forgive me. Oh, my love, don&rsquo;t feel hurt
      at my not opening my heart to you as I ought! I dare not open it. I dare
      not show myself to you as I really am.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray don&rsquo;t send and seek after me; I will write and relieve all your
      anxieties. You know, Norah, we must get our living for ourselves; I have
      only gone to get mine in the manner which is fittest for me. Whether I
      succeed, or whether I fail, I can do myself no harm either way. I have no
      position to lose, and no name to degrade. Don&rsquo;t doubt I love you&mdash;don&rsquo;t
      let Miss Garth doubt my gratitude. I go away miserable at leaving you; but
      I must go. If I had loved you less dearly, I might have had the courage to
      say this in your presence&mdash;but how could I trust myself to resist
      your persuasions, and to bear the sight of your distress? Farewell, my
      darling! Take a thousand kisses from me, my own best, dearest love, till
      we meet again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Sergeant Bulmer (of the Detective Police) to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Scotland Yard, September 29th, 1846.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;Your clerk informs me that the parties interested in our
      inquiry after the missing young lady are anxious for news of the same. I
      went to your office to speak to you about the matter to-day. Not having
      found you, and not being able to return and try again to-morrow, I write
      these lines to save delay, and to tell you how we stand thus far.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to say, no advance has been made since my former report. The
      trace of the young lady which we found nearly a week since, still remains
      the last trace discovered of her. This case seems a mighty simple one
      looked at from a distance. Looked at close, it alters very considerably
      for the worse, and becomes, to speak the plain truth&mdash;a Poser.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is how we now stand:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have traced the young lady to the theatrical agent&rsquo;s in Bow Street. We
      know that at an early hour on the morning of the twenty-third the agent
      was called downstairs, while he was dressing, to speak to a young lady in
      a cab at the door. We know that, on her production of Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s card,
      he wrote on it Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s address in the country, and heard her order
      the cabman to drive to the Great Northern terminus. We believe she left by
      the nine o&rsquo;clock train. We followed her by the twelve o&rsquo;clock train. We
      have ascertained that she called at half-past two at Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s
      lodgings; that she found he was away, and not expected back till eight in
      the evening; that she left word she would call again at eight; and that
      she never returned. Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s statement is&mdash;he and the young
      lady have never set eyes on each other. The first consideration which
      follows, is this: Are we to believe Mr. Huxtable? I have carefully
      inquired into his character; I know as much, or more, about him than he
      knows about himself; and my opinion is, that we <i>are</i> to believe him.
      To the best of my knowledge, he is a perfectly honest man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here, then, is the hitch in the case. The young lady sets out with a
      certain object before her. Instead of going on to the accomplishment of
      that object, she stops short of it. Why has she stopped? and where? Those
      are, unfortunately, just the questions which we can&rsquo;t answer yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My own opinion of the matter is, briefly, as follows: I don&rsquo;t think she
      has met with any serious accident. Serious accidents, in nine cases out of
      ten, discover themselves. My own notion is, that she has fallen into the
      hands of some person or persons interested in hiding her away, and sharp
      enough to know how to set about it. Whether she is in their charge, with
      or without her own consent, is more than I can undertake to say at
      present. I don&rsquo;t wish to raise false hopes or false fears; I wish to stop
      short at the opinion I have given already.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In regard to the future, I may tell you that I have left one of my men in
      daily communication with the authorities. I have also taken care to have
      the handbills offering a reward for the discovery of her widely
      circulated. Lastly, I have completed the necessary arrangements for seeing
      the play-bills of all country theaters, and for having the dramatic
      companies well looked after. Some years since, this would have cost a
      serious expenditure of time and money. Luckily for our purpose, the
      country theaters are in a bad way. Excepting the large cities, hardly one
      of them is open, and we can keep our eye on them, with little expense and
      less difficulty.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;These are the steps which I think it needful to take at present. If you
      are of another opinion, you have only to give me your directions, and I
      will carefully attend to the same. I don&rsquo;t by any means despair of our
      finding the young lady and bringing her back to her friends safe and well.
      Please to tell them so; and allow me to subscribe myself, yours
      respectfully,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ABRAHAM BULMER.&rdquo; V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Anonymous Letter addressed to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;A word to the wise. The friends of a certain young lady are
      wasting time and money to no purpose. Your confidential clerk and your
      detective policeman are looking for a needle in a bottle of hay. This is
      the ninth of October, and they have not found her yet: they will as soon
      find the Northwest Passage. Call your dogs off; and you may hear of the
      young lady&rsquo;s safety under her own hand. The longer you look for her, the
      longer she will remain, what she is now&mdash;lost.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      [The preceding letter is thus indorsed, in Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s handwriting: &ldquo;No
      apparent means of tracing the inclosed to its source. Post-mark, &lsquo;Charing
      Cross.&rsquo; Stationer&rsquo;s stamp cut off the inside of the envelope. Handwriting,
      probably a man&rsquo;s, in disguise. Writer, whoever he is, correctly informed.
      No further trace of the younger Miss Vanstone discovered yet.&rdquo;]
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE SECOND SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      SKELDERGATE, YORK
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      IN that part of the city of York which is situated on the western bank of
      the Ouse there is a narrow street, called Skeldergate, running nearly
      north and south, parallel with the course of the river. The postern by
      which Skeldergate was formerly approached no longer exists; and the few
      old houses left in the street are disguised in melancholy modern costume
      of whitewash and cement. Shops of the smaller and poorer order, intermixed
      here and there with dingy warehouses and joyless private residences of red
      brick, compose the present aspect of Skeldergate. On the river-side the
      houses are separated at intervals by lanes running down to the water, and
      disclosing lonely little plots of open ground, with the masts of
      sailing-barges rising beyond. At its southward extremity the street ceases
      on a sudden, and the broad flow of the Ouse, the trees, the meadows, the
      public-walk on one bank and the towing-path on the other, open to view.
    </p>
    <p>
      Here, where the street ends, and on the side of it furthest from the
      river, a narrow little lane leads up to the paved footway surmounting the
      ancient Walls of York. The one small row of buildings, which is all that
      the lane possesses, is composed of cheap lodging-houses, with an opposite
      view, at the distance of a few feet, of a portion of the massive city
      wall. This place is called Rosemary Lane. Very little light enters it;
      very few people live in it; the floating population of Skeldergate passes
      it by; and visitors to the Walk on the Walls, who use it as the way up or
      the way down, get out of the dreary little passage as fast as they can.
    </p>
    <p>
      The door of one of the houses in this lost corner of York opened softly on
      the evening of the twenty-third of September, eighteen hundred and
      forty-six; and a solitary individual of the male sex sauntered into
      Skeldergate from the seclusion of Rosemary Lane.
    </p>
    <p>
      Turning northward, this person directed his steps toward the bridge over
      the Ouse and the busy center of the city. He bore the external appearance
      of respectable poverty; he carried a gingham umbrella, preserved in an
      oilskin case; he picked his steps, with the neatest avoidance of all dirty
      places on the pavement; and he surveyed the scene around him with eyes of
      two different colors&mdash;a bilious brown eye on the lookout for
      employment, and a bilious green eye in a similar predicament. In plainer
      terms, the stranger from Rosemary Lane was no other than&mdash;Captain
      Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      Outwardly speaking, the captain had not altered for the better since the
      memorable spring day when he had presented himself to Miss Garth at the
      lodge-gate at Combe-Raven. The railway mania of that famous year had
      attacked even the wary Wragge; had withdrawn him from his customary
      pursuits; and had left him prostrate in the end, like many a better man.
      He had lost his clerical appearance&mdash;he had faded with the autumn
      leaves. His crape hat-band had put itself in brown mourning for its own
      bereavement of black. His dingy white collar and cravat had died the death
      of old linen, and had gone to their long home at the paper-maker&rsquo;s, to
      live again one day in quires at a stationer&rsquo;s shop. A gray shooting-jacket
      in the last stage of woolen atrophy replaced the black frockcoat of former
      times, and, like a faithful servant, kept the dark secret of its master&rsquo;s
      linen from the eyes of a prying world. From top to toe every square inch
      of the captain&rsquo;s clothing was altered for the worse; but the man himself
      remained unchanged&mdash;superior to all forms of moral mildew, impervious
      to the action of social rust. He was as courteous, as persuasive, as
      blandly dignified as ever. He carried his head as high without a
      shirt-collar as ever he had carried it with one. The threadbare black
      handkerchief round his neck was perfectly tied; his rotten old shoes were
      neatly blacked; he might have compared chins, in the matter of smooth
      shaving, with the highest church dignitary in York. Time, change, and
      poverty had all attacked the captain together, and had all failed alike to
      get him down on the ground. He paced the streets of York, a man superior
      to clothes and circumstances&mdash;his vagabond varnish as bright on him
      as ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      Arrived at the bridge, Captain Wragge stopped and looked idly over the
      parapet at the barges in the river. It was plainly evident that he had no
      particular destination to reach and nothing whatever to do. While he was
      still loitering, the clock of York Minster chimed the half-hour past five.
      Cabs rattled by him over the bridge on their way to meet the train from
      London, at twenty minutes to six. After a moment&rsquo;s hesitation, the captain
      sauntered after the cabs. When it is one of a man&rsquo;s regular habits to live
      upon his fellow-creatures, that man is always more or less fond of
      haunting large railway stations. Captain Wragge gleaned the human field,
      and on that unoccupied afternoon the York terminus was as likely a corner
      to look about in as any other.
    </p>
    <p>
      He reached the platform a few minutes after the train had arrived. That
      entire incapability of devising administrative measures for the management
      of large crowds, which is one of the characteristics of Englishmen in
      authority, is nowhere more strikingly exemplified than at York. Three
      different lines of railway assemble three passenger mobs, from morning to
      night, under one roof; and leave them to raise a traveler&rsquo;s riot, with all
      the assistance which the bewildered servants of the company can render to
      increase the confusion. The customary disturbance was rising to its climax
      as Captain Wragge approached the platform. Dozens of different people were
      trying to attain dozens of different objects, in dozens of different
      directions, all starting from the same common point and all equally
      deprived of the means of information. A sudden parting of the crowd, near
      the second-class carriages, attracted the captain&rsquo;s curiosity. He pushed
      his way in; and found a decently-dressed man&mdash;assisted by a porter
      and a policeman&mdash;attempting to pick up some printed bills scattered
      from a paper parcel, which his frenzied fellow-passengers had knocked out
      of his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      Offering his assistance in this emergency, with the polite alacrity which
      marked his character, Captain Wragge observed the three startling words,
      &ldquo;Fifty Pounds Reward,&rdquo; printed in capital letters on the bills which he
      assisted in recovering; and instantly secreted one of them, to be more
      closely examined at the first convenient opportunity. As he crumpled up
      the bill in the palm of his hand, his party-colored eyes fixed with hungry
      interest on the proprietor of the unlucky parcel. When a man happens not
      to be possessed of fifty pence in his own pocket, if his heart is in the
      right place, it bounds; if his mouth is properly constituted, it waters,
      at the sight of another man who carries about with him a printed offer of
      fifty pounds sterling, addressed to his fellow-creatures.
    </p>
    <p>
      The unfortunate traveler wrapped up his parcel as he best might, and made
      his way off the platform, after addressing an inquiry to the first
      official victim of the day&rsquo;s passenger-traffic, who was sufficiently in
      possession of his senses to listen to it. Leaving the station for the
      river-side, which was close at hand, the stranger entered the ferryboat at
      the North Street Postern. The captain, who had carefully dogged his steps
      thus far, entered the boat also; and employed the short interval of
      transit to the opposite bank in a perusal of the handbill which he had
      kept for his own private enlightenment. With his back carefully turned on
      the traveler, Captain Wragge now possessed his mind of the following
      lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;FIFTY POUNDS REWARD.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Left her home, in London, early on the morning of September 23d, 1846, A
      YOUNG LADY. Age&mdash;eighteen. Dress&mdash;deep mourning. Personal
      appearance&mdash;hair of a very light brown; eyebrows and eyelashes
      darker; eyes light gray; complexion strikingly pale; lower part of her
      face large and full; tall upright figure; walks with remarkable grace and
      ease; speaks with openness and resolution; has the manners and habits of a
      refined, cultivated lady. Personal marks&mdash;two little moles, close
      together, on the left side of the neck. Mark on the under-clothing&mdash;&lsquo;Magdalen
      Vanstone.&rsquo; Is supposed to have joined, or attempted to join, under an
      assumed name, a theatrical company now performing at York. Had, when she
      left London, one black box, and no other luggage. Whoever will give such
      information as will restore her to her friends shall receive the above
      Reward. Apply at the office of Mr. Harkness, solicitor, Coney Street,
      York. Or to Messrs. Wyatt, Pendril, and Gwilt, Serle Street, Lincoln&rsquo;s
      Inn, London.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Accustomed as Captain Wragge was to keep the completest possession of
      himself in all human emergencies, his own profound astonishment, when the
      course of his reading brought him to the mark on the linen of the missing
      young lady, betrayed him into an exclamation of surprise which even
      startled the ferryman. The traveler was less observant; his whole
      attention was fixed on the opposite bank of the river, and he left the
      boat hastily the moment it touched the landing-place. Captain Wragge
      recovered himself, pocketed the handbill, and followed his leader for the
      second time.
    </p>
    <p>
      The stranger directed his steps to the nearest street which ran down to
      the river, compared a note in his pocketbook with the numbers of the
      houses on the left-hand side, stopped at one of them, and rang the bell.
      The captain went on to the next house; affected to ring the bell, in his
      turn, and stood with his back to the traveler&mdash;in appearance, waiting
      to be let in; in reality, listening with all his might for any scraps of
      dialogue which might reach his ears on the opening of the door behind him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The door was answered with all due alacrity, and a sufficiently
      instructive interchange of question and answer on the threshold rewarded
      the dexterity of Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Does Mr. Huxtable live here?&rdquo; asked the traveler.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir,&rdquo; was the answer, in a woman&rsquo;s voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is he at home?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not at home now, sir; but he will be in again at eight to-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think a young lady called here early in the day, did she not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; a young lady came this afternoon.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Exactly; I come on the same business. Did she see Mr. Huxtable?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, sir; he has been away all day. The young lady told me she would come
      back at eight o&rsquo;clock.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just so. I will call and see Mr. Huxtable at the same time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Any name, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No; say a gentleman called on theatrical business&mdash;that will be
      enough. Wait one minute, if you please. I am a stranger in York; will you
      kindly tell me which is the way to Coney Street?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The woman gave the required information, the door closed, and the stranger
      hastened away in the direction of Coney Street.
    </p>
    <p>
      On this occasion Captain Wragge made no attempt to follow him. The
      handbill revealed plainly enough that the man&rsquo;s next object was to
      complete the necessary arrangements with the local solicitor on the
      subject of the promised reward.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having seen and heard enough for his immediate purpose, the captain
      retraced his steps down the street, turned to the right, and entered on
      the Esplanade, which, in that quarter of the city, borders the river-side
      between the swimming-baths and Lendal Tower. &ldquo;This is a family matter,&rdquo;
       said Captain Wragge to himself, persisting, from sheer force of habit, in
      the old assertion of his relationship to Magdalen&rsquo;s mother; &ldquo;I must
      consider it in all its bearings.&rdquo; He tucked the umbrella under his arm,
      crossed his hands behind him, and lowered himself gently into the abyss of
      his own reflections. The order and propriety observable in the captain&rsquo;s
      shabby garments accurately typified the order and propriety which
      distinguished the operations of the captain&rsquo;s mind. It was his habit
      always to see his way before him through a neat succession of alternatives&mdash;and
      so he saw it now.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three courses were open to him in connection with the remarkable discovery
      which he had just made. The first course was to do nothing in the matter
      at all. Inadmissible, on family grounds: equally inadmissible on pecuniary
      grounds: rejected accordingly. The second course was to deserve the
      gratitude of the young lady&rsquo;s friends, rated at fifty pounds. The third
      course was, by a timely warning to deserve the gratitude of the young lady
      herself, rated&mdash;at an unknown figure. Between these two last
      alternatives the wary Wragge hesitated; not from doubt of Magdalen&rsquo;s
      pecuniary resources&mdash;for he was totally ignorant of the circumstances
      which had deprived the sisters of their inheritance&mdash;but from doubt
      whether an obstacle in the shape of an undiscovered gentleman might not be
      privately connected with her disappearance from home. After mature
      reflection, he determined to pause, and be guided by circumstances. In the
      meantime, the first consideration was to be beforehand with the messenger
      from London, and to lay hands securely on the young lady herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I feel for this misguided girl,&rdquo; mused the captain, solemnly strutting
      backward and forward by the lonely river-side. &ldquo;I always have looked upon
      her&mdash;I always shall look upon her&mdash;in the light of a niece.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Where was the adopted relative at that moment? In other words, how was a
      young lady in Magdalen&rsquo;s critical position likely to while away the hours
      until Mr. Huxtable &lsquo;s return? If there was an obstructive gentleman in the
      background, it would be mere waste of time to pursue the question. But if
      the inference which the handbill suggested was correct&mdash;if she was
      really alone at that moment in the city of York&mdash;where was she likely
      to be?
    </p>
    <p>
      Not in the crowded thoroughfares, to begin with. Not viewing the objects
      of interest in the Minster, for it was now past the hour at which the
      cathedral could be seen. Was she in the waiting-room at the railway? She
      would hardly run that risk. Was she in one of the hotels? Doubtful,
      considering that she was entirely by herself. In a pastry-cook&rsquo;s shop? Far
      more likely. Driving about in a cab? Possible, certainly; but no more.
      Loitering away the time in some quiet locality, out-of-doors? Likely
      enough, again, on that fine autumn evening. The captain paused, weighed
      the relative claims on his attention of the quiet locality and the
      pastry-cook&rsquo;s shop; and decided for the first of the two. There was time
      enough to find her at the pastry-cook&rsquo;s, to inquire after her at the
      principal hotels, or, finally, to intercept her in Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s
      immediate neighborhood from seven to eight. While the light lasted, the
      wise course was to use it in looking for her out-of-doors. Where? The
      Esplanade was a quiet locality; but she was not there&mdash;not on the
      lonely road beyond, which ran back by the Abbey Wall. Where next? The
      captain stopped, looked across the river, brightened under the influence
      of a new idea, and suddenly hastened back to the ferry.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Walk on the Walls,&rdquo; thought this judicious man, with a twinkle of his
      party-colored eyes. &ldquo;The quietest place in York; and the place that every
      stranger goes to see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In ten minutes more Captain Wragge was exploring the new field of search.
      He mounted to the walls (which inclose the whole western portion of the
      city) by the North Street Postern, from which the walk winds round until
      it ends again at its southernly extremity in the narrow passage of
      Rosemary Lane. It was then twenty minutes to seven. The sun had set more
      than half an hour since; the red light lay broad and low in the cloudless
      western heaven; all visible objects were softening in the tender twilight,
      but were not darkening yet. The first few lamps lit in the street below
      looked like faint little specks of yellow light, as the captain started on
      his walk through one of the most striking scenes which England can show.
    </p>
    <p>
      On his right hand, as he set forth, stretched the open country beyond the
      walls&mdash;the rich green meadows, the boundary-trees dividing them, the
      broad windings of the river in the distance, the scattered buildings
      nearer to view; all wrapped in the evening stillness, all made beautiful
      by the evening peace. On his left hand, the majestic west front of York
      Minster soared over the city and caught the last brightest light of heaven
      on the summits of its lofty towers. Had this noble prospect tempted the
      lost girl to linger and look at it? No; thus far, not a sign of her. The
      captain looked round him attentively, and walked on.
    </p>
    <p>
      He reached the spot where the iron course of the railroad strikes its way
      through arches in the old wall. He paused at this place&mdash;where the
      central activity of a great railway enterprise beats, with all the pulses
      of its loud-clanging life, side by side with the dead majesty of the past,
      deep under the old historic stones which tell of fortified York and the
      sieges of two centuries since&mdash;he stood on this spot, and searched
      for her again, and searched in vain. Others were looking idly down at the
      desolate activity on the wilderness of the iron rails; but she was not
      among them. The captain glanced doubtfully at the darkening sky, and
      walked on.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stopped again where the postern of Micklegate still stands, and still
      strengthens the city wall as of old. Here the paved walk descends a few
      steps, passes through the dark stone guardroom of the ancient gate,
      ascends again, and continues its course southward until the walls reach
      the river once more. He paused, and peered anxiously into the dim inner
      corners of the old guard-room. Was she waiting there for the darkness to
      come, and hide her from prying eyes? No: a solitary workman loitered
      through the stone chamber; but no other living creature stirred in the
      place. The captain mounted the steps which led out from the postern and
      walked on.
    </p>
    <p>
      He advanced some fifty or sixty yards along the paved footway; the
      outlying suburbs of York on one side of him, a rope-walk and some patches
      of kitchen garden occupying a vacant strip of ground on the other. He
      advanced with eager eyes and quickened step; for he saw before him the
      lonely figure of a woman, standing by the parapet of the wall, with her
      face set toward the westward view. He approached cautiously, to make sure
      of her before she turned and observed him. There was no mistaking that
      tall, dark figure, as it rested against the parapet with a listless grace.
      There she stood, in her long black cloak and gown, the last dim light of
      evening falling tenderly on her pale, resolute young face. There she stood&mdash;not
      three months since the spoiled darling of her parents; the priceless
      treasure of the household, never left unprotected, never trusted alone&mdash;there
      she stood in the lovely dawn of her womanhood, a castaway in a strange
      city, wrecked on the world!
    </p>
    <p>
      Vagabond as he was, the first sight of her staggered even the dauntless
      assurance of Captain Wragge. As she slowly turned her face and looked at
      him, he raised his hat, with the nearest approach to respect which a long
      life of unblushing audacity had left him capable of making.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think I have the honor of addressing the younger Miss Vanstone?&rdquo; he
      began. &ldquo;Deeply gratified, I am sure&mdash;for more reasons than one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at him with a cold surprise. No recollection of the day when he
      had followed her sister and herself on their way home with Miss Garth rose
      in her memory, while he now confronted her, with his altered manner and
      his altered dress.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are mistaken,&rdquo; she said, quietly. &ldquo;You are a perfect stranger to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me,&rdquo; replied the captain; &ldquo;I am a species of relation. I had the
      pleasure of seeing you in the spring of the present year. I presented
      myself on that memorable occasion to an honored preceptress in your late
      father&rsquo;s family. Permit me, under equally agreeable circumstances, to
      present myself to <i>you</i>. My name is Wragge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      By this time he had recovered complete possession of his own impudence;
      his party-colored eyes twinkled cheerfully, and he accompanied his modest
      announcement of himself with a dancing-master&rsquo;s bow.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen frowned, and drew back a step. The captain was not a man to be
      daunted by a cold reception. He tucked his umbrella under his arm and
      jocosely spelled his name for her further enlightenment. &ldquo;W, R, A, double
      G, E&mdash;Wragge,&rdquo; said the captain, ticking off the letters persuasively
      on his fingers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I remember your name,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;Excuse me for leaving you
      abruptly. I have an engagement.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She tried to pass him and walk on northward toward the railway. He
      instantly met the attempt by raising both hands, and displaying a pair of
      darned black gloves outspread in polite protest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not that way,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;not that way, Miss Vanstone, I beg and entreat!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not?&rdquo; she asked haughtily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Because,&rdquo; answered the captain, &ldquo;that is the way which leads to Mr.
      Huxtable&rsquo;s.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In the ungovernable astonishment of hearing his reply she suddenly bent
      forward, and for the first time looked him close in the face. He sustained
      her suspicious scrutiny with every appearance of feeling highly gratified
      by it. &ldquo;H, U, X&mdash;Hux,&rdquo; said the captain, playfully turning to the old
      joke: &ldquo;T, A&mdash;ta, Huxta; B, L, E&mdash;ble; Huxtable.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you know about Mr. Huxtable?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;What do you mean by
      mentioning him to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s curly lip took a new twist upward. He immediately replied,
      to the best practical purpose, by producing the handbill from his pocket.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is just light enough left,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;for young (and lovely) eyes
      to read by. Before I enter upon the personal statement which your
      flattering inquiry claims from me, pray bestow a moment&rsquo;s attention on
      this Document.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She took the handbill from him. By the last gleam of twilight she read the
      lines which set a price on her recovery&mdash;which published the
      description of her in pitiless print, like the description of a strayed
      dog. No tender consideration had prepared her for the shock, no kind word
      softened it to her when it came. The vagabond, whose cunning eyes watched
      her eagerly while she read, knew no more that the handbill which he had
      stolen had only been prepared in anticipation of the worst, and was only
      to be publicly used in the event of all more considerate means of tracing
      her being tried in vain&mdash;than she knew it. The bill dropped from her
      hand; her face flushed deeply. She turned away from Captain Wragge, as if
      all idea of his existence had passed out of her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Norah, Norah!&rdquo; she said to herself, sorrowfully. &ldquo;After the letter I
      wrote you&mdash;after the hard struggle I had to go away! Oh, Norah,
      Norah!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How is Norah?&rdquo; inquired the captain, with the utmost politeness.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned upon him with an angry brightness in her large gray eyes. &ldquo;Is
      this thing shown publicly?&rdquo; she asked, stamping her foot on it. &ldquo;Is the
      mark on my neck described all over York?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray compose yourself,&rdquo; pleaded the persuasive Wragge. &ldquo;At present I have
      every reason to believe that you have just perused the only copy in
      circulation. Allow me to pick it up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before he could touch the bill she snatched it from the pavement, tore it
      into fragments, and threw them over the wall.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bravo!&rdquo; cried the captain. &ldquo;You remind me of your poor dear mother. The
      family spirit, Miss Vanstone. We all inherit our hot blood from my
      maternal grandfather.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How did you come by it?&rdquo; she asked, suddenly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear creature, I have just told you,&rdquo; remonstrated the captain. &ldquo;We
      all come by it from my maternal grandfather.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How did you come by that handbill?&rdquo; she repeated, passionately.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg ten thousand pardons! My head was running on the family spirit.&mdash;How
      did I come by it? Briefly thus.&rdquo; Here Captain Wragge entered on his
      personal statement; taking his customary vocal exercise through the
      longest words of the English language, with the highest elocutionary
      relish. Having, on this rare occasion, nothing to gain by concealment, he
      departed from his ordinary habits, and, with the utmost amazement at the
      novelty of his own situation, permitted himself to tell the unmitigated
      truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      The effect of the narrative on Magdalen by no means fulfilled Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s anticipations in relating it. She was not startled; she was not
      irritated; she showed no disposition to cast herself on his mercy, and to
      seek his advice. She looked him steadily in the face; and all she said,
      when he had neatly rounded his last sentence, was&mdash;&ldquo;Go on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go on?&rdquo; repeated the captain. &ldquo;Shocked to disappoint you, I am sure; but
      the fact is, I have done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, you have not,&rdquo; she rejoined; &ldquo;you have left out the end of your
      story. The end of it is, you came here to look for me; and you mean to
      earn the fifty pounds reward.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Those plain words so completely staggered Captain Wragge that for the
      moment he stood speechless. But he had faced awkward truths of all sorts
      far too often to be permanently disconcerted by them. Before Magdalen
      could pursue her advantage, the vagabond had recovered his balance: Wragge
      was himself again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Smart,&rdquo; said the captain, laughing indulgently, and drumming with his
      umbrella on the pavement. &ldquo;Some men might take it seriously. I&rsquo;m not
      easily offended. Try again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen looked at him through the gathering darkness in mute perplexity.
      All her little experience of society had been experience among people who
      possessed a common sense of honor, and a common responsibility of social
      position. She had hitherto seen nothing but the successful human product
      from the great manufactory of Civilization. Here was one of the failures,
      and, with all her quickness, she was puzzled how to deal with it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me for returning to the subject,&rdquo; pursued the captain. &ldquo;It has
      just occurred to my mind that you might actually have spoken in earnest.
      My poor child! how can I earn the fifty pounds before the reward is
      offered to me? Those handbills may not be publicly posted for a week to
      come. Precious as you are to all your relatives (myself included), take my
      word for it, the lawyers who are managing this case will not pay fifty
      pounds for you if they can possibly help it. Are you still persuaded that
      my needy pockets are gaping for the money? Very good. Button them up in
      spite of me with your own fair fingers. There is a train to London at nine
      forty-five to-night. Submit yourself to your friend&rsquo;s wishes and go back
      by it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never!&rdquo; said Magdalen, firing at the bare suggestion, exactly as the
      captain had intended she should. &ldquo;If my mind had not been made up before,
      that vile handbill would have decided me. I forgive Norah,&rdquo; she added,
      turning away and speaking to herself, &ldquo;but not Mr. Pendril, and not Miss
      Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite right!&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;The family spirit. I should have done
      the same myself at your age. It runs in the blood. Hark! there goes the
      clock again&mdash;half-past seven. Miss Vanstone, pardon this seasonable
      abruptness! If you are to carry out your resolution&mdash;if you are to be
      your own mistress much longer, you must take a course of some kind before
      eight o&rsquo;clock. You are young, you are inexperienced, you are in imminent
      danger. Here is a position of emergency on one side&mdash;and here am I,
      on the other, with an uncle&rsquo;s interest in you, full of advice. Tap me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose I choose to depend on nobody, and to act for myself?&rdquo; said
      Magdalen. &ldquo;What then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then,&rdquo; replied the captain, &ldquo;you will walk straight into one of the four
      traps which are set to catch you in the ancient and interesting city of
      York. Trap the first, at Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s house; trap the second, at all the
      hotels; trap the third, at the railway station; trap the fourth, at the
      theater. That man with the handbills has had an hour at his disposal. If
      he has not set those four traps (with the assistance of the local
      solicitor) by this time, he is not the competent lawyer&rsquo;s clerk I take him
      for. Come, come, my dear girl! if there is somebody else in the
      background, whose advice you prefer to mine&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see that I am alone,&rdquo; she interposed, proudly. &ldquo;If you knew me
      better, you would know that I depend on nobody but myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Those words decided the only doubt which now remained in the captain&rsquo;s
      mind&mdash;the doubt whether the course was clear before him. The motive
      of her flight from home was evidently what the handbills assumed it to be&mdash;a
      reckless fancy for going on the stage. &ldquo;One of two things,&rdquo; thought Wragge
      to himself, in his logical way. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s worth more than fifty pounds to me
      in her present situation, or she isn&rsquo;t. If she is, her friends may whistle
      for her. If she isn&rsquo;t, I have only to keep her till the bills are posted.&rdquo;
       Fortified by this simple plan of action, the captain returned to the
      charge, and politely placed Magdalen between the two inevitable
      alternatives of trusting herself to him, on the one hand, or of returning
      to her friends, on the other.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I respect independence of character wherever I find it,&rdquo; he said, with an
      air of virtuous severity. &ldquo;In a young and lovely relative, I more than
      respect&mdash;I admire it. But (excuse the bold assertion), to walk on a
      way of your own, you must first have a way to walk on. Under existing
      circumstances, where is <i>your</i> way? Mr. Huxtable is out of the
      question, to begin with.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Out of the question for to-night,&rdquo; said Magdalen; &ldquo;but what hinders me
      from writing to Mr. Huxtable, and making my own private arrangements with
      him for to-morrow?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Granted with all my heart&mdash;a hit, a palpable hit. Now for my turn.
      To get to to-morrow (excuse the bold assertion, once more), you must first
      pass through to-night. Where are you to sleep?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are there no hotels in York?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excellent hotels for large families; excellent hotels for single
      gentlemen. The very worst hotels in the world for handsome young ladies
      who present themselves alone at the door without male escort, without a
      maid in attendance, and without a single article of luggage. Dark as it
      is, I think I could see a lady&rsquo;s box, if there was anything of the sort in
      our immediate neighborhood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My box is at the cloak-room. What is to prevent my sending the ticket for
      it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing&mdash;if you want to communicate your address by means of your
      box&mdash;nothing whatever. Think; pray think! Do you really suppose that
      the people who are looking for you are such fools as not to have an eye on
      the cloakroom? Do you think they are such fools&mdash;when they find you
      don&rsquo;t come to Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s at eight to-night&mdash;as not to inquire at
      all the hotels? Do you think a young lady of your striking appearance
      (even if they consented to receive you) could take up her abode at an inn
      without becoming the subject of universal curiosity and remark? Here is
      night coming on as fast as it can. Don&rsquo;t let me bore you; only let me ask
      once more&mdash;Where are you to sleep?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was no answer to that question: in Magdalen&rsquo;s position, there was
      literally no answer to it on her side. She was silent.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where are you to sleep?&rdquo; repeated the captain. &ldquo;The reply is obvious&mdash;under
      my roof. Mrs. Wragge will be charmed to see you. Look upon her as your
      aunt; pray look upon her as your aunt. The landlady is a widow, the house
      is close by, there are no other lodgers, and there is a bedroom to let.
      Can anything be more satisfactory, under all the circumstances? Pray
      observe, I say nothing about to-morrow&mdash;I leave to-morrow to you, and
      confine myself exclusively to the night. I may, or may not, command
      theatrical facilities, which I am in a position to offer you. Sympathy and
      admiration may, or may not, be strong within me, when I contemplate the
      dash and independence of your character. Hosts of examples of bright stars
      of the British drama, who have begun their apprenticeship to the stage as
      you are beginning yours, may, or may not, crowd on my memory. These are
      topics for the future. For the present, I confine myself within my strict
      range of duty. We are within five minutes&rsquo; walk of my present address.
      Allow me to offer you my arm. No? You hesitate? You distrust me? Good
      heavens! is it possible you can have heard anything to my disadvantage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite possible,&rdquo; said Magdalen, without a moment&rsquo;s flinching from the
      answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I inquire the particulars?&rdquo; asked the captain, with the politest
      composure. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t spare my feelings; oblige me by speaking out. In the
      plainest terms, now, what have you heard?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She answered him with a woman&rsquo;s desperate disregard of consequences when
      she is driven to bay&mdash;she answered him instantly,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have heard you are a Rogue.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you, indeed?&rdquo; said the impenetrable Wragge. &ldquo;A Rogue? Well, I waive
      my privilege of setting you right on that point for a fitter time. For the
      sake of argument, let us say I am a Rogue. What is Mr. Huxtable?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A respectable man, or I should not have seen him in the house where we
      first met.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good. Now observe! You talked of writing to Mr. Huxtable a minute
      ago. What do you think a respectable man is likely to do with a young lady
      who openly acknowledges that she has run away from her home and her
      friends to go on the stage? My dear girl, on your own showing, it&rsquo;s not a
      respectable man you want in your present predicament. It&rsquo;s a Rogue&mdash;like
      me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen laughed, bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is some truth in that,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Thank you for recalling me to
      myself and my circumstances. I have my end to gain&mdash;and who am I, to
      pick and choose the way of getting to it? It is my turn to beg pardon now.
      I have been talking as if I was a young lady of family and position.
      Absurd! We know better than that, don&rsquo;t we, Captain Wragge? You are quite
      right. Nobody&rsquo;s child must sleep under Somebody&rsquo;s roof&mdash;and why not
      yours?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This way,&rdquo; said the captain, dexterously profiting by the sudden change
      in her humor, and cunningly refraining from exasperating it by saying more
      himself. &ldquo;This way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She followed him a few steps, and suddenly stopped.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose I <i>am</i> discovered?&rdquo; she broke out, abruptly. &ldquo;Who has any
      authority over me? Who can take me back, if I don&rsquo;t choose to go? If they
      all find me to-morrow, what then? Can&rsquo;t I say No to Mr. Pendril? Can&rsquo;t I
      trust my own courage with Miss Garth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can you trust your courage with your sister?&rdquo; whispered the captain, who
      had not forgotten the references to Norah which had twice escaped her
      already.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her head drooped. She shivered as if the cold night air had struck her,
      and leaned back wearily against the parapet of the wall.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not with Norah,&rdquo; she said, sadly. &ldquo;I could trust myself with the others.
      Not with Norah.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This way,&rdquo; repeated Captain Wragge. She roused herself; looked up at the
      darkening heaven, looked round at the darkening view. &ldquo;What must be,
      must,&rdquo; she said, and followed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Minster clock struck the quarter to eight as they left the Walk on the
      Wall and descended the steps into Rosemary Lane. Almost at the same moment
      the lawyer&rsquo;s clerk from London gave the last instructions to his
      subordinates, and took up his own position, on the opposite side of the
      river, within easy view of Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s door.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      CAPTAIN WRAGGE stopped nearly midway in the one little row of houses
      composing Rosemary Lane, and let himself and his guest in at the door of
      his lodgings with his own key. As they entered the passage, a care-worn
      woman in a widow&rsquo;s cap made her appearance with a candle. &ldquo;My niece,&rdquo; said
      the captain, presenting Magdalen; &ldquo;my niece on a visit to York. She has
      kindly consented to occupy your empty bedroom. Consider it let, if you
      please, to my niece&mdash;and be very particular in airing the sheets? Is
      Mrs. Wragge upstairs? Very good. You may lend me your candle. My dear
      girl, Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s boudoir is on the first floor; Mrs. Wragge is visible.
      Allow me to show you the way up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As he ascended the stairs first, the care-worn widow whispered, piteously,
      to Magdalen, &ldquo;I hope you&rsquo;ll pay me, miss. Your uncle doesn&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain threw open the door of the front room on the first floor, and
      disclosed a female figure, arrayed in a gown of tarnished amber-colored
      satin, seated solitary on a small chair, with dingy old gloves on its
      hands, with a tattered old book on its knees, and with one little bedroom
      candle by its side. The figure terminated at its upper extremity in a
      large, smooth, white round face&mdash;like a moon&mdash;encircled by a cap
      and green ribbons, and dimly irradiated by eyes of mild and faded blue,
      which looked straightforward into vacancy, and took not the smallest
      notice of Magdalen&rsquo;s appearance, on the opening of the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo; cried the captain, shouting at her as if she was fast
      asleep. &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The lady of the faded blue eyes slowly rose to an apparently interminable
      height. When she had at last attained an upright position, she towered to
      a stature of two or three inches over six feet. Giants of both sexes are,
      by a wise dispensation of Providence, created, for the most part, gentle.
      If Mrs. Wragge and a lamb had been placed side by side, comparison, under
      those circumstances, would have exposed the lamb as a rank impostor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tea, captain?&rdquo; inquired Mrs. Wragge, looking submissively down at her
      husband, whose head, when he stood on tiptoe, barely reached her shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss Vanstone, the younger,&rdquo; said the captain, presenting Magdalen. &ldquo;Our
      fair relative, whom I have met by fortunate accident. Our guest for the
      night. Our guest!&rdquo; reiterated the captain, shouting once more as if the
      tall lady was still fast asleep, in spite of the plain testimony of her
      own eyes to the contrary.
    </p>
    <p>
      A smile expressed itself (in faint outline) on the large vacant space of
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s countenance. &ldquo;Oh?&rdquo; she said, interrogatively. &ldquo;Oh, indeed?
      Please, miss, will you sit down? I&rsquo;m sorry&mdash;no, I don&rsquo;t mean I&rsquo;m
      sorry; I mean I&rsquo;m glad&mdash;&rdquo; she stopped, and consulted her husband by a
      helpless look.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Glad, of course!&rdquo; shouted the captain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Glad, of course,&rdquo; echoed the giantess of the amber satin, more meekly
      than ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge is not deaf,&rdquo; explained the captain. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s only a little
      slow. Constitutionally torpid&mdash;if I may use the expression. I am
      merely loud with her (and I beg you will honor me by being loud, too) as a
      necessary stimulant to her ideas. Shout at her&mdash;and her mind comes up
      to time. Speak to her&mdash;and she drifts miles away from you directly.
      Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge instantly acknowledged the stimulant. &ldquo;Tea, captain?&rdquo; she
      inquired, for the second time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Put your cap straight!&rdquo; shouted her husband. &ldquo;I beg ten thousand
      pardons,&rdquo; he resumed, again addressing himself to Magdalen. &ldquo;The sad truth
      is, I am a martyr to my own sense of order. All untidiness, all want of
      system and regularity, cause me the acutest irritation. My attention is
      distracted, my composure is upset; I can&rsquo;t rest till things are set
      straight again. Externally speaking, Mrs. Wragge is, to my infinite
      regret, the crookedest woman I ever met with. More to the right!&rdquo; shouted
      the captain, as Mrs. Wragge, like a well-trained child, presented herself
      with her revised head-dress for her husband&rsquo;s inspection.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge immediately pulled the cap to the left. Magdalen rose, and set
      it right for her. The moon-face of the giantess brightened for the first
      time. She looked admiringly at Magdalen&rsquo;s cloak and bonnet. &ldquo;Do you like
      dress, miss?&rdquo; she asked, suddenly, in a confidential whisper. &ldquo;I do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Show Miss Vanstone her room,&rdquo; said the captain, looking as if the whole
      house belonged to him. &ldquo;The spare-room, the landlady&rsquo;s spare-room, on the
      third floor front. Offer Miss Vanstone all articles connected with the
      toilet of which she may stand in need. She has no luggage with her. Supply
      the deficiency, and then come back and make tea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge acknowledged the receipt of these lofty directions by a look
      of placid bewilderment, and led the way out of the room; Magdalen
      following her, with a candle presented by the attentive captain. As soon
      as they were alone on the landing outside, Mrs. Wragge raised the tattered
      old book which she had been reading when Magdalen was first presented to
      her, and which she had never let out of her hand since, and slowly tapped
      herself on the forehead with it. &ldquo;Oh, my poor head!&rdquo; said the tall lady,
      in meek soliloquy; &ldquo;it&rsquo;s Buzzing again worse than ever!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Buzzing?&rdquo; repeated Magdalen, in the utmost astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge ascended the stairs, without offering any explanation, stopped
      at one of the rooms on the second floor, and led the way in.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is not the third floor,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;This is not my room,
      surely?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait a bit,&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Wait a bit, miss, before we go up any
      higher. I&rsquo;ve got the Buzzing in my head worse than ever. Please wait for
      me till I&rsquo;m a little better again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I ask for help?&rdquo; inquired Magdalen. &ldquo;Shall I call the landlady?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Help?&rdquo; echoed Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Bless you, I don&rsquo;t want help! I&rsquo;m used to it.
      I&rsquo;ve had the Buzzing in my head, off and on&mdash;how many years?&rdquo; She
      stopped, reflected, lost herself, and suddenly tried a question in
      despair. &ldquo;Have you ever been at Darch&rsquo;s Dining-rooms in London?&rdquo; she
      asked, with an appearance of the deepest interest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, wondering at the strange inquiry.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s where the Buzzing in my head first began,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge,
      following the new clew with the deepest attention and anxiety. &ldquo;I was
      employed to wait on the gentlemen at Darch&rsquo;s Dining-rooms&mdash;I was. The
      gentlemen all came together; the gentlemen were all hungry together; the
      gentlemen all gave their orders together&mdash;&rdquo; She stopped, and tapped
      her head again, despondently, with the tattered old book.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And you had to keep all their orders in your memory, separate one from
      the other?&rdquo; suggested Magdalen, helping her out. &ldquo;And the trying to do
      that confused you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s it!&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, becoming violently excited in a moment.
      &ldquo;Boiled pork and greens and pease-pudding, for Number One. Stewed beef and
      carrots and gooseberry tart, for Number Two. Cut of mutton, and quick
      about it, well done, and plenty of fat, for Number Three. Codfish and
      parsnips, two chops to follow, hot-and-hot, or I&rsquo;ll be the death of you,
      for Number Four. Five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Carrots and
      gooseberry tart&mdash;pease-pudding and plenty of fat&mdash;pork and beef
      and mutton, and cut &lsquo;em all, and quick about it&mdash;stout for one, and
      ale for t&rsquo;other&mdash;and stale bread here, and new bread there&mdash;and
      this gentleman likes cheese, and that gentleman doesn&rsquo;t&mdash;Matilda,
      Tilda, Tilda, Tilda, fifty times over, till I didn&rsquo;t know my own name
      again&mdash;oh lord! oh lord!! oh lord!!! all together, all at the same
      time, all out of temper, all buzzing in my poor head like forty thousand
      million bees&mdash;don&rsquo;t tell the captain! don&rsquo;t tell the captain!&rdquo; The
      unfortunate creature dropped the tattered old book, and beat both her
      hands on her head, with a look of blank terror fixed on the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hush! hush!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;The captain hasn&rsquo;t heard you. I know what is
      the matter with your head now. Let me cool it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She dipped a towel in water, and pressed it on the hot and helpless head
      which Mrs. Wragge submitted to her with the docility of a sick child.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What a pretty hand you&rsquo;ve got!&rdquo; said the poor creature, feeling the
      relief of the coolness and taking Magdalen&rsquo;s hand, admiringly, in her own.
      &ldquo;How soft and white it is! I try to be a lady; I always keep my gloves on&mdash;but
      I can&rsquo;t get my hands like yours. I&rsquo;m nicely dressed, though, ain&rsquo;t I? I
      like dress; it&rsquo;s a comfort to me. I&rsquo;m always happy when I&rsquo;m looking at my
      things. I say&mdash;you won&rsquo;t be angry with me?&mdash;I should so like to
      try your bonnet on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen humored her, with the ready compassion of the young. She stood
      smiling and nodding at herself in the glass, with the bonnet perched on
      the top of her head. &ldquo;I had one as pretty as this, once,&rdquo; she said&mdash;&ldquo;only
      it was white, not black. I wore it when the captain married me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where did you meet with him?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, putting the question as a
      chance means of increasing her scanty stock of information on the subject
      of Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At the Dining-rooms,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;He was the hungriest and the
      loudest to wait upon of the lot of &lsquo;em. I made more mistakes with him than
      I did with all the rest of them put together. He used to swear&mdash;oh,
      didn&rsquo;t he use to swear! When he left off swearing at me he married me.
      There was others wanted me besides him. Bless you, I had my pick. Why not?
      When you have a trifle of money left you that you didn&rsquo;t expect, if that
      don&rsquo;t make a lady of you, what does? Isn&rsquo;t a lady to have her pick? I had
      my trifle of money, and I had my pick, and I picked the captain&mdash;I
      did. He was the smartest and the shortest of them all. He took care of me
      and my money. I&rsquo;m here, the money&rsquo;s gone. Don&rsquo;t you put that towel down on
      the table&mdash;he won&rsquo;t have that! Don&rsquo;t move his razors&mdash;don&rsquo;t,
      please, or I shall forget which is which. I&rsquo;ve got to remember which is
      which to-morrow morning. Bless you, the captain don&rsquo;t shave himself! He
      had me taught. I shave him. I do his hair, and cut his nails&mdash;he&rsquo;s
      awfully particular about his nails. So he is about his trousers. And his
      shoes. And his newspaper in the morning. And his breakfasts, and lunches,
      and dinners, and teas&mdash;&rdquo; She stopped, struck by a sudden
      recollection, looked about her, observed the tattered old book on the
      floor, and clasped her hands in despair. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve lost the place!&rdquo; she
      exclaimed helplessly. &ldquo;Oh, mercy, what will become of me! I&rsquo;ve lost the
      place.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind,&rdquo; said Magdalen; &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll soon find the place for you again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She picked up the book, looked into the pages, and found that the object
      of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s anxiety was nothing more important than an old-fashioned
      Treatise on the Art of Cookery, reduced under the usual heads of Fish,
      Flesh, and Fowl, and containing the customary series of recipes. Turning
      over the leaves, Magdalen came to one particular page, thickly studded
      with little drops of moisture half dry. &ldquo;Curious!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;If this was
      anything but a cookery-book, I should say somebody had been crying over
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Somebody?&rdquo; echoed Mrs. Wragge, with a stare of amazement. &ldquo;It isn&rsquo;t
      somebody&mdash;it&rsquo;s Me. Thank you kindly, that&rsquo;s the place, sure enough.
      Bless you, I&rsquo;m used to crying over it. You&rsquo;d cry, too, if you had to get
      the captain&rsquo;s dinners out of it. As sure as ever I sit down to this book
      the Buzzing in my head begins again. Who&rsquo;s to make it out? Sometimes I
      think I&rsquo;ve got it, and it all goes away from me. Sometimes I think I
      haven&rsquo;t got it, and it all comes back in a heap. Look here! Here&rsquo;s what
      he&rsquo;s ordered for his breakfast to-morrow: &lsquo;Omelette with Herbs. Beat up
      two eggs with a little water or milk, salt, pepper, chives, and parsley.
      Mince small.&rsquo;&mdash;There! mince small! How am I to mince small when it&rsquo;s
      all mixed up and running? &lsquo;Put a piece of butter the size of your thumb
      into the frying-pan.&rsquo;&mdash;Look at my thumb, and look at yours! whose
      size does she mean? &lsquo;Boil, but not brown.&rsquo;&mdash;If it mustn&rsquo;t be brown,
      what color must it be? She won&rsquo;t tell me; she expects me to know, and I
      don&rsquo;t. &lsquo;Pour in the omelette.&rsquo;&mdash;There! I can do that. &lsquo;Allow it to
      set, raise it round the edge; when done, turn it over to double it.&rsquo;&mdash;Oh,
      the number of times I turned it over and doubled it in my head, before you
      came in to-night! &lsquo;Keep it soft; put the dish on the frying-pan, and turn
      it over.&rsquo; Which am I to turn over&mdash;oh, mercy, try the cold towel
      again, and tell me which&mdash;the dish or the frying-pan?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Put the dish on the frying-pan,&rdquo; said Magdalen; &ldquo;and then turn the
      frying-pan over. That is what it means, I think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you kindly,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, &ldquo;I want to get it into my head;
      please say it again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen said it again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And then turn the frying-pan over,&rdquo; repeated Mrs. Wragge, with a sudden
      burst of energy. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got it now! Oh, the lots of omelettes all frying
      together in my head; and all frying wrong! Much obliged, I&rsquo;m sure. You&rsquo;ve
      put me all right again: I&rsquo;m only a little tired with talking. And then
      turn the frying-pan, then turn the frying-pan, then turn the frying-pan
      over. It sounds like poetry, don&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice sank, and she drowsily closed her eyes. At the same moment the
      door of the room below opened, and the captain&rsquo;s mellifluous bass notes
      floated upstairs, charged with the customary stimulant to his wife&rsquo;s
      faculties.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo; cried the captain. &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She started to her feet at that terrible summons. &ldquo;Oh, what did he tell me
      to do?&rdquo; she asked, distractedly. &ldquo;Lots of things, and I&rsquo;ve forgotten them
      all!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Say you have done them when he asks you,&rdquo; suggested Magdalen. &ldquo;They were
      things for me&mdash;things I don&rsquo;t want. I remember all that is necessary.
      My room is the front room on the third floor. Go downstairs and say I am
      coming directly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She took up the candle and pushed Mrs. Wragge out on the landing. &ldquo;Say I
      am coming directly,&rdquo; she whispered again&mdash;and went upstairs by
      herself to the third story.
    </p>
    <p>
      The room was small, close, and very poorly furnished. In former days Miss
      Garth would have hesitated to offer such a room to one of the servants at
      Combe-Raven. But it was quiet; it gave her a few minutes alone; and it was
      endurable, even welcome, on that account. She locked herself in and walked
      mechanically, with a woman&rsquo;s first impulse in a strange bedroom, to the
      rickety little table and the dingy little looking-glass. She waited there
      for a moment, and then turned away with weary contempt. &ldquo;What does it
      matter how pale I am?&rdquo; she thought to herself. &ldquo;Frank can&rsquo;t see me&mdash;what
      does it matter now!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She laid aside her cloak and bonnet, and sat down to collect herself. But
      the events of the day had worn her out. The past, when she tried to
      remember it, only made her heart ache. The future, when she tried to
      penetrate it, was a black void. She rose again, and stood by the
      uncurtained window&mdash;stood looking out, as if there was some hidden
      sympathy for her own desolation in the desolate night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah!&rdquo; she said to herself, tenderly; &ldquo;I wonder if Norah is thinking of
      me? Oh, if I could be as patient as she is! If I could only forget the
      debt we owe to Michael Vanstone!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her face darkened with a vindictive despair, and she paced the little cage
      of a room backward and forward, softly. &ldquo;No: never till the debt is paid!&rdquo;
       Her thoughts veered back again to Frank. &ldquo;Still at sea, poor fellow;
      further and further away from me; sailing through the day, sailing through
      the night. Oh, Frank, love me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her eyes filled with tears. She dashed them away, made for the door, and
      laughed with a desperate levity, as she unlocked it again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Any company is better than my own thoughts,&rdquo; she burst out, recklessly,
      as she left the room. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m forgetting my ready-made relations&mdash;my
      half-witted aunt, and my uncle the rogue.&rdquo; She descended the stairs to the
      landing on the first floor, and paused there in momentary hesitation. &ldquo;How
      will it end?&rdquo; she asked herself. &ldquo;Where is my blindfolded journey taking
      me to now? Who knows, and who cares?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She entered the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge was presiding at the tea-tray with the air of a prince in
      his own banqueting-hall. At one side of the table sat Mrs. Wragge,
      watching her husband&rsquo;s eye like an animal waiting to be fed. At the other
      side was an empty chair, toward which the captain waved his persuasive
      hand when Magdalen came in. &ldquo;How do you like your room?&rdquo; he inquired; &ldquo;I
      trust Mrs. Wragge has made herself useful? You take milk and sugar? Try
      the local bread, honor the York butter, test the freshness of a new and
      neighboring egg. I offer my little all. A pauper&rsquo;s meal, my dear girl&mdash;seasoned
      with a gentleman&rsquo;s welcome.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Seasoned with salt, pepper, chives and parsley,&rdquo; murmured Mrs. Wragge,
      catching instantly at a word in connection with cookery, and harnessing
      her head to the omelette for the rest of the evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sit straight at the table!&rdquo; shouted the captain. &ldquo;More to the left, more
      still&mdash;that will do. During your absence upstairs,&rdquo; he continued,
      addressing himself to Magdalen, &ldquo;my mind has not been unemployed. I have
      been considering your position with a view exclusively to your own
      benefit. If you decide on being guided to-morrow by the light of my
      experience, that light is unreservedly at your service. You may naturally
      say: &lsquo;I know but little of you, captain, and that little is unfavorable.&rsquo;
      Granted, on one condition&mdash;that you permit me to make myself and my
      character quite familiar to you when tea is over. False shame is foreign
      to my nature. You see my wife, my house, my bread, my butter, and my eggs,
      all exactly as they are. See me, too, my dear girl, while you are about
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When tea was over, Mrs. Wragge, at a signal from her husband, retired to a
      corner of the room, with the eternal cookery-book still in her hand.
      &ldquo;Mince small,&rdquo; she whispered, confidentially, as she passed Magdalen.
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s a teaser, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Down at heel again!&rdquo; shouted the captain, pointing to his wife&rsquo;s heavy
      flat feet as they shuffled across the room. &ldquo;The right shoe. Pull it up at
      heel, Mrs. Wragge&mdash;pull it up at heel! Pray allow me,&rdquo; he continued,
      offering his arm to Magdalen, and escorting her to a dirty little
      horse-hair sofa. &ldquo;You want repose&mdash;after your long journey, you
      really want repose.&rdquo; He drew his chair to the sofa, and surveyed her with
      a bland look of investigation&mdash;as if he had been her medical
      attendant, with a diagnosis on his mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very pleasant! very pleasant!&rdquo; said the captain, when he had seen his
      guest comfortable on the sofa. &ldquo;I feel quite in the bosom of my family.
      Shall we return to our subject&mdash;the subject of my rascally self? No!
      no! No apologies, no protestations, pray. Don&rsquo;t mince the matter on your
      side&mdash;and depend on me not to mince it on mine. Now come to facts;
      pray come to facts. Who, and what am I? Carry your mind back to our
      conversation on the Walls of this interesting City, and let us start once
      more from your point of view. I am a Rogue; and, in that capacity (as I
      have already pointed out), the most useful man you possibly could have met
      with. Now observe! There are many varieties of Rogue; let me tell you my
      variety, to begin with. I am a Swindler.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His entire shamelessness was really super-human. Not the vestige of a
      blush varied the sallow monotony of his complexion; the smile wreathed his
      curly lips as pleasantly as ever his party-colored eyes twinkled at
      Magdalen with the self-enjoying frankness of a naturally harmless man. Had
      his wife heard him? Magdalen looked over his shoulder to the corner of the
      room in which she was sitting behind him. No the self-taught student of
      cookery was absorbed in her subject. She had advanced her imaginary
      omelette to the critical stage at which the butter was to be thrown in&mdash;that
      vaguely-measured morsel of butter, the size of your thumb. Mrs. Wragge sat
      lost in contemplation of one of her own thumbs, and shook her head over
      it, as if it failed to satisfy her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be shocked,&rdquo; proceeded the captain; &ldquo;don&rsquo;t be astonished. Swindler
      is nothing but a word of two syllables. S, W, I, N, D&mdash;swind; L, E, R&mdash;ler;
      Swindler. Definition: A moral agriculturist; a man who cultivates the
      field of human sympathy. I am that moral agriculturist, that cultivating
      man. Narrow-minded mediocrity, envious of my success in my profession,
      calls me a Swindler. What of that? The same low tone of mind assails men
      in other professions in a similar manner&mdash;calls great writers
      scribblers&mdash;great generals, butchers&mdash;and so on. It entirely
      depends on the point of view. Adopting your point, I announce myself
      intelligibly as a Swindler. Now return the obligation, and adopt mine.
      Hear what I have to say for myself, in the exercise of my profession.&mdash;Shall
      I continue to put it frankly?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Magdalen; &ldquo;and I&rsquo;ll tell you frankly afterward what I think of
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain cleared his throat; mentally assembled his entire army of
      words&mdash;horse, foot, artillery, and reserves; put himself at the head;
      and dashed into action, to carry the moral intrenchments of Society by a
      general charge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now observe,&rdquo; he began. &ldquo;Here am I, a needy object. Very good. Without
      complicating the question by asking how I come to be in that condition, I
      will merely inquire whether it is, or is not, the duty of a Christian
      community to help the needy. If you say No, you simply shock me; and there
      is an end of it; if you say Yes, then I beg to ask, Why am I to blame for
      making a Christian community do its duty? You may say, Is a careful man
      who has saved money bound to spend it again on a careless stranger who has
      saved none? Why of course he is! And on what ground, pray? Good heavens!
      on the ground that he has <i>got</i> the money, to be sure. All the world
      over, the man who has not got the thing, obtains it, on one pretense or
      another, of the man who has&mdash;and, in nine cases out of ten, the
      pretense is a false one. What! your pockets are full, and my pockets are
      empty; and you refuse to help me? Sordid wretch! do you think I will allow
      you to violate the sacred obligations of charity in my person? I won&rsquo;t
      allow you&mdash;I say, distinctly, I won&rsquo;t allow you. Those are my
      principles as a moral agriculturist. Principles which admit of trickery?
      Certainly. Am I to blame if the field of human sympathy can&rsquo;t be
      cultivated in any other way? Consult my brother agriculturists in the mere
      farming line&mdash;do they get their crops for the asking? No! they must
      circumvent arid Nature exactly as I circumvent sordid Man. They must plow,
      and sow, and top-dress, and bottom-dress, and deep-drain, and
      surface-drain, and all the rest of it. Why am I to be checked in the vast
      occupation of deep-draining mankind? Why am I to be persecuted for
      habitually exciting the noblest feelings of our common nature? Infamous!&mdash;I
      can characterize it by no other word&mdash;infamous! If I hadn&rsquo;t
      confidence in the future, I should despair of humanity&mdash;but I have
      confidence in the future. Yes! one of these days (when I am dead and
      gone), as ideas enlarge and enlightenment progresses, the abstract merits
      of the profession now called swindling will be recognized. When that day
      comes, don&rsquo;t drag me out of my grave and give me a public funeral; don&rsquo;t
      take advantage of my having no voice to raise in my own defense, and
      insult me by a national statue. No! do me justice on my tombstone; dash me
      off, in one masterly sentence, on my epitaph. Here lies Wragge, embalmed
      in the tardy recognition of his species: he plowed, sowed, and reaped his
      fellow-creatures; and enlightened posterity congratulates him on the
      uniform excellence of his crops.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped; not from want of confidence, not from want of words&mdash;purely
      from want of breath. &ldquo;I put it frankly, with a dash of humor,&rdquo; he said,
      pleasantly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t shock you&mdash;do I?&rdquo; Weary and heart-sick as she
      was&mdash;suspicious of others, doubtful of herself&mdash;the extravagant
      impudence of Captain Wragge&rsquo;s defense of swindling touched Magdalen&rsquo;s
      natural sense of humor, and forced a smile to her lips. &ldquo;Is the Yorkshire
      crop a particularly rich one just at present?&rdquo; she inquired, meeting him,
      in her neatly feminine way, with his own weapons.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A hit&mdash;a palpable hit,&rdquo; said the captain, jocosely exhibiting the
      tails of his threadbare shooting jacket, as a practical commentary on
      Magdalen&rsquo;s remark. &ldquo;My dear girl, here or elsewhere, the crop never fails&mdash;but
      one man can&rsquo;t always gather it in. The assistance of intelligent
      co-operation is, I regret to say, denied me. I have nothing in common with
      the clumsy rank and file of my profession, who convict themselves, before
      recorders and magistrates, of the worst of all offenses&mdash;incurable
      stupidity in the exercise of their own vocation. Such as you see me, I
      stand entirely alone. After years of successful self-dependence, the
      penalties of celebrity are beginning to attach to me. On my way from the
      North, I pause at this interesting city for the third time; I consult my
      Books for the customary references to past local experience; I find under
      the heading, &lsquo;Personal position in York,&rsquo; the initials, T. W. K.,
      signifying Too Well Known. I refer to my Index, and turn to the
      surrounding neighborhood. The same brief marks meet my eye. &lsquo;Leeds. T. W.
      K.&mdash;Scarborough. T. W. K.&mdash;Harrowgate. T. W. K.&rsquo;&mdash;and so
      on. What is the inevitable consequence? I suspend my proceedings; my
      resources evaporate; and my fair relative finds me the pauper gentleman
      whom she now sees before her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your books?&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;What books do you mean?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall see,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;Trust me, or not, as you like&mdash;I
      trust <i>you</i> implicitly. You shall see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words he retired into the back room. While he was gone,
      Magdalen stole another look at Mrs. Wragge. Was she still self-isolated
      from her husband&rsquo;s deluge of words? Perfectly self-isolated. She had
      advanced the imaginary omelette to the last stage of culinary progress;
      and she was now rehearsing the final operation of turning it over&mdash;with
      the palm of her hand to represent the dish, and the cookery-book to
      impersonate the frying-pan. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve got it,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, nodding
      across the room at Magdalen. &ldquo;First put the frying-pan on the dish, and
      then tumble both of them over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge returned, carrying a neat black dispatch-box, adorned with
      a bright brass lock. He produced from the box five or six plump little
      books, bound in commercial calf and vellum, and each fitted comfortably
      with its own little lock.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mind!&rdquo; said the moral agriculturist, &ldquo;I take no credit to myself for
      this: it is my nature to be orderly, and orderly I am. I must have
      everything down in black and white, or I should go mad! Here is my
      commercial library: Daybook, Ledger, Book of Districts, Book of Letters,
      Book of Remarks, and so on. Kindly throw your eye over any one of them. I
      flatter myself there is no such thing as a blot, or a careless entry in
      it, from the first page to the last. Look at this room&mdash;is there a
      chair out of place? Not if I know it! Look at <i>me</i>. Am I dusty? am I
      dirty? am I half shaved? Am I, in brief, a speckless pauper, or am I not?
      Mind! I take no credit to myself; the nature of the man, my dear girl&mdash;the
      nature of the man!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He opened one of the books. Magdalen was no judge of the admirable
      correctness with which the accounts inside were all kept; but she could
      estimate the neatness of the handwriting, the regularity in the rows of
      figures, the mathematical exactness of the ruled lines in red and black
      ink, the cleanly absence of blots, stains, or erasures. Although Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s inborn sense of order was in him&mdash;as it is in others&mdash;a
      sense too inveterately mechanical to exercise any elevating moral
      influence over his actions, it had produced its legitimate effect on his
      habits, and had reduced his rogueries as strictly to method and system as
      if they had been the commercial transactions of an honest man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In appearance, my system looks complicated?&rdquo; pursued the captain. &ldquo;In
      reality, it is simplicity itself. I merely avoid the errors of inferior
      practitioners. That is to say, I never plead for myself; and I never apply
      to rich people&mdash;both fatal mistakes which the inferior practitioner
      perpetually commits. People with small means sometimes have generous
      impulses in connection with money&mdash;rich people, <i>never</i>. My
      lord, with forty thousand a year; Sir John, with property in half a dozen
      counties&mdash;those are the men who never forgive the genteel beggar for
      swindling them out of a sovereign; those are the men who send for the
      mendicity officers; those are the men who take care of their money. Who
      are the people who lose shillings and sixpences by sheer thoughtlessness?
      Servants and small clerks, to whom shillings and sixpences are of
      consequence. Did you ever hear of Rothschild or Baring dropping a
      fourpenny-piece down a gutter-hole? Fourpence in Rothschild&rsquo;s pocket is
      safer than fourpence in the pocket of that woman who is crying stale
      shrimps in Skeldergate at this moment. Fortified by these sound
      principles, enlightened by the stores of written information in my
      commercial library, I have ranged through the population for years past,
      and have raised my charitable crops with the most cheering success. Here,
      in book Number One, are all my Districts mapped out, with the prevalent
      public feeling to appeal to in each: Military District, Clerical District,
      Agricultural District; et cetera, et cetera. Here, in Number Two, are my
      cases that I plead: Family of an officer who fell at Waterloo; Wife of a
      poor curate stricken down by nervous debility; Widow of a grazier in
      difficulties gored to death by a mad bull; et cetera, et cetera. Here, in
      Number Three, are the people who have heard of the officer&rsquo;s family, the
      curate&rsquo;s wife, the grazier&rsquo;s widow, and the people who haven&rsquo;t; the people
      who have said Yes, and the people who have said No; the people to try
      again, the people who want a fresh case to stir them up, the people who
      are doubtful, the people to beware of; et cetera, et cetera. Here, in
      Number Four, are my Adopted Handwritings of public characters; my
      testimonials to my own worth and integrity; my Heartrending Statements of
      the officer&rsquo;s family, the curate&rsquo;s wife, and the grazier&rsquo;s widow, stained
      with tears, blotted with emotion; et cetera, et cetera. Here, in Numbers
      Five and Six, are my own personal subscriptions to local charities,
      actually paid in remunerative neighborhoods, on the principle of throwing
      a sprat to catch a herring; also, my diary of each day&rsquo;s proceedings, my
      personal reflections and remarks, my statement of existing difficulties
      (such as the difficulty of finding myself T. W. K. in this interesting
      city); my outgivings and incomings; wind and weather; politics and public
      events; fluctuations in my own health; fluctuations in Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s head;
      fluctuations in our means and meals, our payments, prospects, and
      principles; et cetera, et cetera. So, my dear girl, the Swindler&rsquo;s Mill
      goes. So you see me exactly as I am. You knew, before I met you, that I
      lived on my wits. Well! have I, or have I not, shown you that I have wits
      to live on?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no doubt you have done yourself full justice,&rdquo; said Magdalen,
      quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not at all exhausted,&rdquo; continued the captain. &ldquo;I can go on, if
      necessary, for the rest of the evening.&mdash;However, if I have done
      myself full justice, perhaps I may leave the remaining points in my
      character to develop themselves at future opportunities. For the present,
      I withdraw myself from notice. Exit Wragge. And now to business! Permit me
      to inquire what effect I have produced on your own mind? Do you still
      believe that the Rogue who has trusted you with all his secrets is a Rogue
      who is bent on taking a mean advantage of a fair relative?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will wait a little,&rdquo; Magdalen rejoined, &ldquo;before I answer that question.
      When I came down to tea, you told me you had been employing your mind for
      my benefit. May I ask how?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all means,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;You shall have the net result of the
      whole mental process. Said process ranges over the present and future
      proceedings of your disconsolate friends, and of the lawyers who are
      helping them to find you. Their present proceedings are, in all
      probability, assuming the following form: the lawyer&rsquo;s clerk has given you
      up at Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s, and has also, by this time, given you up, after
      careful inquiry, at all the hotels. His last chance is that you may send
      for your box to the cloak-room&mdash;you don&rsquo;t send for it&mdash;and there
      the clerk is to-night (thanks to Captain Wragge and Rosemary Lane) at the
      end of his resources. He will forthwith communicate that fact to his
      employers in London; and those employers (don&rsquo;t be alarmed!) will apply
      for help to the detective police. Allowing for inevitable delays, a
      professional spy, with all his wits about him, and with those handbills to
      help him privately in identifying you, will be here certainly not later
      than the day after tomorrow&mdash;possibly earlier. If you remain in York,
      if you attempt to communicate with Mr. Huxtable, that spy will find you
      out. If, on the other hand, you leave the city before he comes (taking
      your departure by other means than the railway, of course) you put him in
      the same predicament as the clerk&mdash;you defy him to find a fresh trace
      of you. There is my brief abstract of your present position. What do you
      think of it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think it has one defect,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;It ends in nothing.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me,&rdquo; retorted the captain. &ldquo;It ends in an arrangement for your
      safe departure, and in a plan for the entire gratification of your wishes
      in the direction of the stage. Both drawn from the resources of my own
      experience, and both waiting a word from you, to be poured forth
      immediately in the fullest detail.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think I know what that word is,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, looking at him
      attentively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Charmed to hear it, I am sure. You have only to say, &lsquo;Captain Wragge,
      take charge of me&rsquo;&mdash;and my plans are yours from that moment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will take to-night to consider your proposal,&rdquo; she said, after an
      instant&rsquo;s reflection. &ldquo;You shall have my answer to-morrow morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge looked a little disappointed. He had not expected the
      reservation on his side to be met so composedly by a reservation on hers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not decide at once?&rdquo; he remonstrated, in his most persuasive tones.
      &ldquo;You have only to consider&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have more to consider than you think for,&rdquo; she answered. &ldquo;I have
      another object in view besides the object you know of.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, Captain Wragge&mdash;you may <i>not</i> ask. Allow me to thank
      you for your hospitality, and to wish you good-night. I am worn out. I
      want rest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Once more the captain wisely adapted himself to her humor with the ready
      self-control of an experienced man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Worn out, of course!&rdquo; he said, sympathetically. &ldquo;Unpardonable on my part
      not to have thought of it before. We will resume our conversation
      to-morrow. Permit me to give you a candle. Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Prostrated by mental exertion, Mrs. Wragge was pursuing the course of the
      omelette in dreams. Her head was twisted one way, and her body the other.
      She snored meekly. At intervals one of her hands raised itself in the air,
      shook an imaginary frying-pan, and dropped again with a faint thump on the
      cookery-book in her lap. At the sound of her husband&rsquo;s voice, she started
      to her feet, and confronted him with her mind fast asleep, and her eyes
      wide open.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Assist Miss Vanstone,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;And the next time you forget
      yourself in your chair, fall asleep straight&mdash;don&rsquo;t annoy me by
      falling asleep crooked.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge opened her eyes a little wider, and looked at Magdalen in
      helpless amazement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is the captain breakfasting by candle-light?&rdquo; she inquired, meekly. &ldquo;And
      haven&rsquo;t I done the omelette?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before her husband&rsquo;s corrective voice could apply a fresh stimulant,
      Magdalen took her compassionately by the arm and led her out of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Another object besides the object I know of?&rdquo; repeated Captain Wragge,
      when he was left by himself. &ldquo;<i>Is</i> there a gentleman in the
      background, after all? Is there mischief brewing in the dark that I don&rsquo;t
      bargain for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      TOWARD six o&rsquo;clock the next morning, the light pouring in on her face
      awoke Magdalen in the bedroom in Rosemary Lane.
    </p>
    <p>
      She started from her deep, dreamless repose of the past night with that
      painful sense of bewilderment, on first waking, which is familiar to all
      sleepers in strange beds. &ldquo;Norah!&rdquo; she called out mechanically, when she
      opened her eyes. The next instant her mind roused itself, and her senses
      told her the truth. She looked round the miserable room with a loathing
      recognition of it. The sordid contrast which the place presented to all
      that she had been accustomed to see in her own bed-chamber&mdash;the
      practical abandonment, implied in its scanty furniture, of those elegant
      purities of personal habit to which she had been accustomed from her
      childhood&mdash;shocked that sense of bodily self-respect in Magdalen
      which is a refined woman&rsquo;s second nature. Contemptible as the influence
      seemed, when compared with her situation at that moment, the bare sight of
      the jug and basin in a corner of the room decided her first resolution
      when she woke. She determined, then and there, to leave Rosemary Lane.
    </p>
    <p>
      How was she to leave it? With Captain Wragge, or without him?
    </p>
    <p>
      She dressed herself, with a dainty shrinking from everything in the room
      which her hands or her clothes touched in the process, and then opened the
      window. The autumn air felt keen and sweet; and the little patch of sky
      that she could see was warmly bright already with the new sunlight.
      Distant voices of bargemen on the river, and the chirping of birds among
      the weeds which topped the old city wall, were the only sounds that broke
      the morning silence. She sat down by the window; and searched her mind for
      the thoughts which she had lost, when weariness overcame her on the night
      before.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first subject to which she returned was the vagabond subject of
      Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      The &ldquo;moral agriculturist&rdquo; had failed to remove her personal distrust of
      him, cunningly as he had tried to plead against it by openly confessing
      the impostures that he had practiced on others. He had raised her opinion
      of his abilities; he had amused her by his humor; he had astonished her by
      his assurance; but he had left her original conviction that he was a Rogue
      exactly where it was when he first met with her. If the one design then in
      her mind had been the design of going on the stage, she would, at all
      hazards, have rejected the more than doubtful assistance of Captain Wragge
      on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the perilous journey on which she had now adventured herself had
      another end in view&mdash;an end, dark and distant&mdash;an end, with
      pitfalls hidden on the way to it, far other than the shallow pitfalls on
      the way to the stage. In the mysterious stillness of the morning, her mind
      looked on to its second and its deeper design, and the despicable figure
      of the swindler rose before her in a new view.
    </p>
    <p>
      She tried to shut him out&mdash;to feel above him and beyond him again, as
      she had felt up to this time.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a little trifling with her dress, she took from her bosom the white
      silk bag which her own hands had made on the farewell night at
      Combe-Raven. It drew together at the mouth with delicate silken strings.
      The first thing she took out, on opening it, was a lock of Frank&rsquo;s hair,
      tied with a morsel of silver thread; the next was a sheet of paper
      containing the extracts which she had copied from her father&rsquo;s will and
      her father&rsquo;s letter; the last was a closely-folded packet of bank-notes,
      to the value of nearly two hundred pounds&mdash;the produce (as Miss Garth
      had rightly conjectured) of the sale of her jewelry and her dresses, in
      which the servant at the boarding-school had privately assisted her. She
      put back the notes at once, without a second glance at them, and then sat
      looking thoughtfully at the lock of hair as it lay on her lap. &ldquo;You are
      better than nothing,&rdquo; she said, speaking to it with a girl&rsquo;s fanciful
      tenderness. &ldquo;I can sit and look at you sometimes, till I almost think I am
      looking at Frank. Oh, my darling! my darling!&rdquo; Her voice faltered softly,
      and she put the lock of hair, with a languid gentleness, to her lips. It
      fell from her fingers into her bosom. A lovely tinge of color rose on her
      cheeks, and spread downward to her neck, as if it followed the falling
      hair. She closed her eyes, and let her fair head droop softly. The world
      passed from her; and, for one enchanted moment, Love opened the gates of
      Paradise to the daughter of Eve.
    </p>
    <p>
      The trivial noises in the neighboring street, gathering in number as the
      morning advanced, forced her back to the hard realities of the passing
      time. She raised her head with a heavy sigh, and opened her eyes once more
      on the mean and miserable little room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The extracts from the will and the letter&mdash;those last memorials of
      her father, now so closely associated with the purpose which had
      possession of her mind&mdash;still lay before her. The transient color
      faded from her face, as she spread the little manuscript open on her lap.
      The extracts from the will stood highest on the page; they were limited to
      those few touching words in which the dead father begged his children&rsquo;s
      forgiveness for the stain on their birth, and implored them to remember
      the untiring love and care by which he had striven to atone for it. The
      extract from the letter to Mr. Pendril came next. She read the last
      melancholy sentences aloud to herself: &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake come on the day
      when you receive this&mdash;come and relieve me from the dreadful thought
      that my two darling girls are at this moment unprovided for. If anything
      happened to me, and if my desire to do their mother justice ended (through
      my miserable ignorance of the law) in leaving Norah and Magdalen
      disinherited, I should not rest in my grave!&rdquo; Under these lines again, and
      close at the bottom of the page, was written the terrible commentary on
      that letter which had fallen from Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s lips: &ldquo;Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s
      daughters are Nobody&rsquo;s Children, and the law leaves them helpless at their
      uncle&rsquo;s mercy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Helpless when those words were spoken&mdash;helpless still, after all that
      she had resolved, after all that she had sacrificed. The assertion of her
      natural rights and her sister&rsquo;s, sanctioned by the direct expression of
      her father&rsquo;s last wishes; the recall of Frank from China; the
      justification of her desertion of Norah&mdash;all hung on her desperate
      purpose of recovering the lost inheritance, at any risk, from the man who
      had beggared and insulted his brother&rsquo;s children. And that man was still a
      shadow to her! So little did she know of him that she was even ignorant at
      that moment of his place of abode.
    </p>
    <p>
      She rose and paced the room with the noiseless, negligent grace of a wild
      creature of the forest in its cage. &ldquo;How can I reach him in the dark?&rdquo; she
      said to herself. &ldquo;How can I find out&mdash;?&rdquo; She stopped suddenly. Before
      the question had shaped itself to an end in her thoughts, Captain Wragge
      was back in her mind again.
    </p>
    <p>
      A man well used to working in the dark; a man with endless resources of
      audacity and cunning; a man who would hesitate at no mean employment that
      could be offered to him, if it was employment that filled his pockets&mdash;was
      this the instrument for which, in its present need, her hand was waiting?
      Two of the necessities to be met, before she could take a single step in
      advance, were plainly present to her&mdash;the necessity of knowing more
      of her father&rsquo;s brother than she knew now; and the necessity of throwing
      him off his guard by concealing herself personally during the process of
      inquiry. Resolutely self-dependent as she was, the inevitable spy&rsquo;s work
      at the outset must be work delegated to another. In her position, was
      there any ready human creature within reach but the vagabond downstairs?
      Not one. She thought of it anxiously, she thought of it long. Not one!
      There the choice was, steadily confronting her: the choice of taking the
      Rogue, or of turning her back on the Purpose.
    </p>
    <p>
      She paused in the middle of the room. &ldquo;What can he do at his worst?&rdquo; she
      said to herself. &ldquo;Cheat me. Well! if my money governs him for me, what
      then? Let him have my money!&rdquo; She returned mechanically to her place by
      the window. A moment more decided her. A moment more, and she took the
      first fatal step downward-she determined to face the risk, and try Captain
      Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      At nine o&rsquo;clock the landlady knocked at Magdalen&rsquo;s door, and informed her
      (with the captain&rsquo;s kind compliments) that breakfast was ready.
    </p>
    <p>
      She found Mrs. Wragge alone, attired in a voluminous brown holland
      wrapper, with a limp cape and a trimming of dingy pink ribbon. The
      ex-waitress at Darch&rsquo;s Dining-rooms was absorbed in the contemplation of a
      large dish, containing a leathery-looking substance of a mottled yellow
      color, profusely sprinkled with little black spots.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There it is!&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Omelette with herbs. The landlady helped
      me. And that&rsquo;s what we&rsquo;ve made of it. Don&rsquo;t you ask the captain for any
      when he comes in&mdash;don&rsquo;t, there&rsquo;s a good soul. It isn&rsquo;t nice. We had
      some accidents with it. It&rsquo;s been under the grate. It&rsquo;s been spilled on
      the stairs. It&rsquo;s scalded the landlady&rsquo;s youngest boy&mdash;he went and sat
      on it. Bless you, it isn&rsquo;t half as nice as it looks! Don&rsquo;t you ask for
      any. Perhaps he won&rsquo;t notice if you say nothing about it. What do you
      think of my wrapper? I should so like to have a white one. Have you got a
      white one? How is it trimmed? Do tell me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The formidable entrance of the captain suspended the next question on her
      lips. Fortunately for Mrs. Wragge, her husband was far too anxious for the
      promised expression of Magdalen&rsquo;s decision to pay his customary attention
      to questions of cookery. When breakfast was over, he dismissed Mrs.
      Wragge, and merely referred to the omelette by telling her that she had
      his full permission to &ldquo;give it to the dogs.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How does my little proposal look by daylight?&rdquo; he asked, placing chairs
      for Magdalen and himself. &ldquo;Which is it to be: &lsquo;Captain Wragge, take charge
      of me?&rsquo; or, &lsquo;Captain Wragge, good-morning?&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall hear directly,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;I have something to say
      first. I told you, last night, that I had another object in view besides
      the object of earning my living on the stage&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; interposed Captain Wragge. &ldquo;Did you say, earning your
      living?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly. Both my sister and myself must depend on our own exertions to
      gain our daily bread.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What!!!&rdquo; cried the captain, starting to his feet. &ldquo;The daughters of my
      wealthy and lamented relative by marriage reduced to earn their own
      living? Impossible&mdash;wildly, extravagantly impossible!&rdquo; He sat down
      again, and looked at Magdalen as if she had inflicted a personal injury on
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are not acquainted with the full extent of our misfortune,&rdquo; she said,
      quietly. &ldquo;I will tell you what has happened before I go any further.&rdquo; She
      told him at once, in the plainest terms she could find, and with as few
      details as possible.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s profound bewilderment left him conscious of but one
      distinct result produced by the narrative on his own mind. The lawyer&rsquo;s
      offer of Fifty Pounds Reward for the missing young lady ascended instantly
      to a place in his estimation which it had never occupied until that
      moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do I understand,&rdquo; he inquired, &ldquo;that you are entirely deprived of present
      resources?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have sold my jewelry and my dresses,&rdquo; said Magdalen, impatient of his
      mean harping on the pecuniary string. &ldquo;If my want of experience keeps me
      back in a theater, I can afford to wait till the stage can afford to pay
      me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge mentally appraised the rings, bracelets, and necklaces, the
      silks, satins, and laces of the daughter of a gentleman of fortune, at&mdash;say,
      a third of their real value. In a moment more, the Fifty Pounds Reward
      suddenly sank again to the lowest depths in the deep estimation of this
      judicious man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just so,&rdquo; he said, in his most business-like manner. &ldquo;There is not the
      least fear, my dear girl, of your being kept back in a theater, if you
      possess present resources, and if you profit by my assistance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must accept more assistance than you have already offered&mdash;or
      none,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I have more serious difficulties before me than the
      difficulty of leaving York, and the difficulty of finding my way to the
      stage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t say so! I am all attention; pray explain yourself!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She considered her next words carefully before they passed her lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are certain inquiries,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;which I am interested in making.
      If I undertook them myself, I should excite the suspicion of the person
      inquired after, and should learn little or nothing of what I wish to know.
      If the inquiries could be made by a stranger, without my being seen in the
      matter, a service would be rendered me of much greater importance than the
      service you offered last night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s vagabond face became gravely and deeply attentive.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;what the nature of the inquiries is likely to be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen hesitated. She had necessarily mentioned Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s name
      in informing the captain of the loss of her inheritance. She must
      inevitably mention it to him again if she employed his services. He would
      doubtless discover it for himself, by a plain process of inference, before
      she said many words more, frame them as carefully as she might. Under
      these circumstances, was there any intelligible reason for shrinking from
      direct reference to Michael Vanstone? No intelligible reason&mdash;and yet
      she shrank.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For instance,&rdquo; pursued Captain Wragge, &ldquo;are they inquiries about a man or
      a woman; inquiries about an enemy or a friend&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An enemy,&rdquo; she answered, quickly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her reply might still have kept the captain in the dark&mdash;but her eyes
      enlightened him. &ldquo;Michael Vanstone!&rdquo; thought the wary Wragge. &ldquo;She looks
      dangerous; I&rsquo;ll feel my way a little further.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With regard, now, to the person who is the object of these inquiries,&rdquo; he
      resumed. &ldquo;Are you thoroughly clear in your own mind about what you want to
      know?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perfectly clear,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;I want to know where he lives, to
      begin with.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. And after that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to know about his habits; about who the people are whom he
      associates with; about what he does with his money&mdash;&rdquo; She considered
      a little. &ldquo;And one thing more,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I want to know whether there is
      any woman about his house&mdash;a relation, or a housekeeper&mdash;who has
      an influence over him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Harmless enough, so far,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;What next?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing. The rest is my secret.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The clouds on Captain Wragge&rsquo;s countenance began to clear away again. He
      reverted, with his customary precision, to his customary choice of
      alternatives. &ldquo;These inquiries of hers,&rdquo; he thought, &ldquo;mean one of two
      things&mdash;Mischief, or Money! If it&rsquo;s Mischief, I&rsquo;ll slip through her
      fingers. If it&rsquo;s Money, I&rsquo;ll make myself useful, with a view to the
      future.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s vigilant eyes watched the progress of his reflections
      suspiciously. &ldquo;Captain Wragge,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;if you want time to consider,
      say so plainly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want a moment,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;Place your departure from
      York, your dramatic career, and your private inquiries under my care. Here
      I am, unreservedly at your disposal. Say the word&mdash;do you take me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her heart beat fast; her lips turned dry&mdash;but she said the word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause. Magdalen sat silent, struggling with the vague dread of
      the future which had been roused in her mind by her own reply. Captain
      Wragge, on his side, was apparently absorbed in the consideration of a new
      set of alternatives. His hands descended into his empty pockets, and
      prophetically tested their capacity as receptacles for gold and silver.
      The brightness of the precious metals was in his face, the smoothness of
      the precious metals was in his voice, as he provided himself with a new
      supply of words, and resumed the conversation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The next question,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;is the question of time. Do these
      confidential investigations of ours require immediate attention&mdash;or
      can they wait?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the present, they can wait,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;I wish to secure my
      freedom from all interference on the part of my friends before the
      inquiries are made.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good. The first step toward accomplishing that object is to beat our
      retreat&mdash;excuse a professional metaphor from a military man&mdash;to
      beat our retreat from York to-morrow. I see my way plainly so far; but I
      am all abroad, as we used to say in the militia, about my marching orders
      afterward. The next direction we take ought to be chosen with an eye to
      advancing your dramatic views. I am all ready, when I know what your views
      are. How came you to think of the theater at all? I see the sacred fire
      burning in you; tell me, who lit it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen could only answer him in one way. She could only look back at the
      days that were gone forever, and tell him the story of her first step
      toward the stage at Evergreen Lodge. Captain Wragge listened with his
      usual politeness; but he evidently derived no satisfactory impression from
      what he heard. Audiences of friends were audiences whom he privately
      declined to trust; and the opinion of the stage-manager was the opinion of
      a man who spoke with his fee in his pocket and his eye on a future
      engagement.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Interesting, deeply interesting,&rdquo; he said, when Magdalen had done. &ldquo;But
      not conclusive to a practical man. A specimen of your abilities is
      necessary to enlighten me. I have been on the stage myself; the comedy of
      the Rivals is familiar to me from beginning to end. A sample is all I
      want, if you have not forgotten the words&mdash;a sample of &lsquo;Lucy,&rsquo; and a
      sample of &lsquo;Julia.&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have not forgotten the words,&rdquo; said Magdalen, sorrowfully; &ldquo;and I have
      the little books with me in which my dialogue was written out. I have
      never parted with them; they remind me of a time&mdash;&rdquo; Her lip trembled,
      and a pang of the heart-ache silenced her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nervous,&rdquo; remarked the captain, indulgently. &ldquo;Not at all a bad sign. The
      greatest actresses on the stage are nervous. Follow their example, and get
      over it. Where are the parts? Oh, here they are! Very nicely written, and
      remarkably clean. I&rsquo;ll give you the cues&mdash;it will all be over (as the
      dentists say) in no time. Take the back drawing-room for the stage, and
      take me for the audience. Tingle goes the bell; up runs the curtain; order
      in the gallery, silence in the pit&mdash;enter Lucy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She tried hard to control herself; she forced back the sorrow&mdash;the
      innocent, natural, human sorrow for the absent and the dead&mdash;pleading
      hard with her for the tears that she refused. Resolutely, with cold,
      clinched hands, she tried to begin. As the first familiar words passed her
      lips, Frank came back to her from the sea, and the face of her dead father
      looked at her with the smile of happy old times. The voices of her mother
      and her sister talked gently in the fragrant country stillness, and the
      garden-walks at Combe-Raven opened once more on her view. With a faint,
      wailing cry, she dropped into a chair; her head fell forward on the table,
      and she burst passionately into tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge was on his feet in a moment. She shuddered as he came near
      her, and waved him back vehemently with her hand. &ldquo;Leave me!&rdquo; she said;
      &ldquo;leave me a minute by myself!&rdquo; The compliant Wragge retired to the front
      room; looked out of the window; and whistled under his breath. &ldquo;The family
      spirit again!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Complicated by hysterics.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After waiting a minute or two he returned to make inquiries.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there anything I can offer you?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;Cold water? burned
      feathers? smelling salts? medical assistance? Shall I summon Mrs. Wragge?
      Shall we put it off till to-morrow?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She started up, wild and flushed, with a desperate self-command in her
      face, with an angry resolution in her manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I must harden myself&mdash;and I will! Sit down again and
      see me act.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bravo!&rdquo; cried the captain. &ldquo;Dash at it, my beauty&mdash;and it&rsquo;s done!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She dashed at it, with a mad defiance of herself&mdash;with a raised
      voice, and a glow like fever in her cheeks. All the artless, girlish charm
      of the performance in happier and better days was gone. The native
      dramatic capacity that was in her came, hard and bold, to the surface,
      stripped of every softening allurement which had once adorned it. She
      would have saddened and disappointed a man with any delicacy of feeling.
      She absolutely electrified Captain Wragge. He forgot his politeness, he
      forgot his long words. The essential spirit of the man&rsquo;s whole vagabond
      life burst out of him irresistibly in his first exclamation. &ldquo;Who the
      devil would have thought it? She <i>can</i> act, after all!&rdquo; The instant
      the words escaped his lips he recovered himself, and glided off into his
      ordinary colloquial channels. Magdalen stopped him in the middle of his
      first compliment. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I have forced the truth out of you for
      once. I want no more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me,&rdquo; replied the incorrigible Wragge. &ldquo;You want a little
      instruction; and I am the man to give it you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that answer, he placed a chair for her, and proceeded to explain
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      She sat down in silence. A sullen indifference began to show itself in her
      manner; her cheeks turned pale again; and her eyes looked wearily vacant
      at the wall before her. Captain Wragge noticed these signs of
      heart-sickness and discontent with herself, after the effort she had made,
      and saw the importance of rousing her by speaking, for once, plainly and
      directly to the point. She had set a new value on herself in his mercenary
      eyes. She had suggested to him a speculation in her youth, her beauty, and
      her marked ability for the stage, which had never entered his mind until
      he saw her act. The old militia-man was quick at his shifts. He and his
      plans had both turned right about together when Magdalen sat down to hear
      what he had to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Huxtable&rsquo;s opinion is my opinion,&rdquo; he began. &ldquo;You are a born actress.
      But you must be trained before you can do anything on the stage. I am
      disengaged&mdash;I am competent&mdash;I have trained others&mdash;I can
      train you. Don&rsquo;t trust my word: trust my eye to my own interests. I&rsquo;ll
      make it my interest to take pains with you, and to be quick about it. You
      shall pay me for my instructions from your profits on the stage. Half your
      salary for the first year; a third of your salary for the second year; and
      half the sum you clear by your first benefit in a London theater. What do
      you say to that? Have I made it my interest to push you, or have I not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So far as appearances went, and so far as the stage went, it was plain
      that he had linked his interests and Magdalen&rsquo;s together. She briefly told
      him so, and waited to hear more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A month or six weeks&rsquo; study,&rdquo; continued the captain, &ldquo;will give me a
      reasonable idea of what you can do best. All ability runs in grooves; and
      your groove remains to be found. We can&rsquo;t find it here&mdash;for we can&rsquo;t
      keep you a close prisoner for weeks together in Rosemary Lane. A quiet
      country place, secure from all interference and interruption, is the place
      we want for a month certain. Trust my knowledge of Yorkshire, and consider
      the place found. I see no difficulties anywhere, except the difficulty of
      beating our retreat to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought your arrangements were made last night?&rdquo; said Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite right,&rdquo; rejoined the captain. &ldquo;They were made last night; and here
      they are. We can&rsquo;t leave by railway, because the lawyer&rsquo;s clerk is sure to
      be on the lookout for you at the York terminus. Very good; we take to the
      road instead, and leave in our own carriage. Where the deuce do we get it?
      We get it from the landlady&rsquo;s brother, who has a horse and chaise which he
      lets out for hire. That chaise comes to the end of Rosemary Lane at an
      early hour to-morrow morning. I take my wife and my niece out to show them
      the beauties of the neighborhood. We have a picnic hamper with us, which
      marks our purpose in the public eye. You disfigure yourself in a shawl,
      bonnet, and veil of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s; we turn our backs on York; and away we
      drive on a pleasure trip for the day&mdash;you and I on the front seat,
      Mrs. Wragge and the hamper behind. Good again. Once on the highroad, what
      do we do? Drive to the first station beyond York, northward, southward, or
      eastward, as may be hereafter determined. No lawyer&rsquo;s clerk is waiting for
      you there. You and Mrs. Wragge get out&mdash;first opening the hamper at a
      convenient opportunity. Instead of containing chickens and Champagne, it
      contains a carpet-bag, with the things you want for the night. You take
      your tickets for a place previously determined on, and I take the chaise
      back to York. Arrived once more in this house, I collect the luggage left
      behind, and send for the woman downstairs. &lsquo;Ladies so charmed with such
      and such a place (wrong place of course), that they have determined to
      stop there. Pray accept the customary week&rsquo;s rent, in place of a week&rsquo;s
      warning. Good day.&rsquo; Is the clerk looking for me at the York terminus? Not
      he. I take my ticket under his very nose; I follow you with the luggage
      along your line of railway&mdash;and where is the trace left of your
      departure? Nowhere. The fairy has vanished; and the legal authorities are
      left in the lurch.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you talk of difficulties?&rdquo; asked Magdalen. &ldquo;The difficulties seem
      to be provided for.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All but ONE,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, with an ominous emphasis on the last
      word. &ldquo;The Grand Difficulty of humanity from the cradle to the grave&mdash;Money.&rdquo;
       He slowly winked his green eye; sighed with deep feeling; and buried his
      insolvent hands in his unproductive pockets.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is the money wanted for?&rdquo; inquired Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To pay my bills,&rdquo; replied the captain, with a touching simplicity. &ldquo;Pray
      understand! I never was&mdash;and never shall be&mdash;personally desirous
      of paying a single farthing to any human creature on the habitable globe.
      I am speaking in your interest, not in mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My interest?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly. You can&rsquo;t get safely away from York to-morrow without the
      chaise. And I can&rsquo;t get the chaise without money. The landlady&rsquo;s brother
      will lend it if he sees his sister&rsquo;s bill receipted, and if he gets his
      day&rsquo;s hire beforehand&mdash;not otherwise. Allow me to put the transaction
      in a business light. We have agreed that I am to be remunerated for my
      course of dramatic instruction out of your future earnings on the stage.
      Very good. I merely draw on my future prospects; and you, on whom those
      prospects depend, are naturally my banker. For mere argument&rsquo;s sake,
      estimate my share in your first year&rsquo;s salary at the totally inadequate
      value of a hundred pounds. Halve that sum; quarter that sum&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How much do you want?&rdquo; said Magdalen, impatiently.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge was sorely tempted to take the Reward at the top of the
      handbills as his basis of calculation. But he felt the vast future
      importance of present moderation; and actually wanting some twelve or
      thirteen pounds, he merely doubled the amount, and said,
      &ldquo;Five-and-twenty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen took the little bag from her bosom, and gave him the money, with
      a contemptuous wonder at the number of words which he had wasted on her
      for the purpose of cheating on so small a scale. In the old days at
      Combe-Raven, five-and-twenty pounds flowed from a stroke of her father&rsquo;s
      pen into the hands of any one in the house who chose to ask for it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s eyes dwelt on the little bag as the eyes of lovers dwell
      on their mistresses. &ldquo;Happy bag!&rdquo; he murmured, as she put it back in her
      bosom. He rose; dived into a corner of the room; produced his neat
      dispatch-box; and solemnly unlocked it on the table between Magdalen and
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The nature of the man, my dear girl&mdash;the nature of the man,&rdquo; he
      said, opening one of his plump little books bound in calf and vellum. &ldquo;A
      transaction has taken place between us. I must have it down in black and
      white.&rdquo; He opened the book at a blank page, and wrote at the top, in a
      fine mercantile hand: <i>&ldquo;Miss Vanstone, the Younger: In account with
      Horatio Wragge, late of the Royal Militia. Dr.&mdash;Cr. Sept. 24th,
      1846. Dr.: To estimated value of H. Wragge&rsquo;s interest in Miss V.&lsquo;s first
      year&rsquo;s salary&mdash;say&mdash;200 pounds. Cr. By paid on account, 25
      pounds.&rdquo;</i> Having completed the entry&mdash;and having also shown, by
      doubling his original estimate on the Debtor side, that Magdalen&rsquo;s easy
      compliance with his demand on her had not been thrown away on him&mdash;the
      captain pressed his blotting-paper over the wet ink, and put away the book
      with the air of a man who had done a virtuous action, and who was above
      boasting about it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me for leaving you abruptly,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Time is of importance; I
      must make sure of the chaise. If Mrs. Wragge comes in, tell her nothing&mdash;she
      is not sharp enough to be trusted. If she presumes to ask questions,
      extinguish her immediately. You have only to be loud. Pray take my
      authority into your own hands, and be as loud with Mrs. Wragge as I am!&rdquo;
       He snatched up his tall hat, bowed, smiled, and tripped out of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sensible of little else but of the relief of being alone; feeling no more
      distinct impression than the vague sense of some serious change having
      taken place in herself and her position, Magdalen let the events of the
      morning come and go like shadows on her mind, and waited wearily for what
      the day might bring forth. After the lapse of some time, the door opened
      softly. The giant figure of Mrs. Wragge stalked into the room, and stopped
      opposite Magdalen in solemn astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where are your Things?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Wragge, with a burst of incontrollable
      anxiety. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been upstairs looking in your drawers. Where are your
      night-gowns and night-caps? and your petticoats and stockings? and your
      hair-pins and bear&rsquo;s grease, and all the rest of it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My luggage is left at the railway station,&rdquo; said Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s moon-face brightened dimly. The ineradicable female instinct
      of Curiosity tried to sparkle in her faded blue eyes&mdash;flickered
      piteously&mdash;and died out.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How much luggage?&rdquo; she asked, confidentially. &ldquo;The captain&rsquo;s gone out.
      Let&rsquo;s go and get it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge!&rdquo; cried a terrible voice at the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the first time in Magdalen&rsquo;s experience, Mrs. Wragge was deaf to the
      customary stimulant. She actually ventured on a feeble remonstrance in the
      presence of her husband.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, do let her have her Things!&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Oh, poor soul, do
      let her have her Things!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s inexorable forefinger pointed to a corner of the room&mdash;dropped
      slowly as his wife retired before it&mdash;and suddenly stopped at the
      region of her shoes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do I hear a clapping on the floor!&rdquo; exclaimed Captain Wragge, with an
      expression of horror. &ldquo;Yes; I do. Down at heel again! The left shoe this
      time. Pull it up, Mrs. Wragge! pull it up!&mdash;The chaise will be here
      to-morrow morning at nine o&rsquo;clock,&rdquo; he continued, addressing Magdalen. &ldquo;We
      can&rsquo;t possibly venture on claiming your box. There is note-paper. Write
      down a list of the necessaries you want. I will take it myself to the
      shop, pay the bill for you, and bring back the parcel. We must sacrifice
      the box&mdash;we must, indeed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While her husband was addressing Magdalen, Mrs. Wragge had stolen out
      again from her corner, and had ventured near enough to the captain to hear
      the words &ldquo;shop&rdquo; and &ldquo;parcel.&rdquo; She clapped her great hands together in
      ungovernable excitement, and lost all control over herself immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, if it&rsquo;s shopping, let me do it!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s going out
      to buy her Things! Oh, let me go with her&mdash;please let me go with
      her!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sit down!&rdquo; shouted the captain. &ldquo;Straight! more to the right&mdash;more
      still. Stop where you are!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge crossed her helpless hands on her lap, and melted meekly into
      tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I do so like shopping,&rdquo; pleaded the poor creature; &ldquo;and I get so little
      of it now!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen completed her list; and Captain Wragge at once left the room with
      it. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t let my wife bore you,&rdquo; he said, pleasantly, as he went out.
      &ldquo;Cut her short, poor soul&mdash;cut her short!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t cry,&rdquo; said Magdalen, trying to comfort Mrs. Wragge by patting her
      on the shoulder. &ldquo;When the parcel comes back you shall open it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, my dear,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, meekly, drying her eyes; &ldquo;thank
      you kindly. Don&rsquo;t notice my handkerchief, please. It&rsquo;s such a very little
      one! I had a nice lot of them once, with lace borders. They&rsquo;re all gone
      now. Never mind! It will comfort me to unpack your Things. You&rsquo;re very
      good to me. I like you. I say&mdash;you won&rsquo;t be angry, will you? Give us
      a kiss.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen stooped over her with the frank grace and gentleness of past
      days, and touched her faded cheek. &ldquo;Let me do something harmless!&rdquo; she
      thought, with a pang at her heart&mdash;&ldquo;oh let me do something innocent
      and kind for the sake of old times!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She felt her eyes moistening, and silently turned away.
    </p>
    <p>
      That night no rest came to her. That night the roused forces of Good and
      Evil fought their terrible fight for her soul&mdash;and left the strife
      between them still in suspense when morning came. As the clock of York
      Minster struck nine, she followed Mrs. Wragge to the chaise, and took her
      seat by the captain&rsquo;s side. In a quarter of an hour more York was in the
      distance, and the highroad lay bright and open before them in the morning
      sunlight.
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE SECOND SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      CHRONICLE OF EVENTS: PRESERVED IN CAPTAIN WRAGGE&rsquo;S DISPATCH-BOX
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for October, 1846.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      I HAVE retired into the bosom of my family. We are residing in the
      secluded village of Ruswarp, on the banks of the Esk, about two miles
      inland from Whitby. Our lodgings are comfortable, and we possess the
      additional blessing of a tidy landlady. Mrs. Wragge and Miss Vanstone
      preceded me here, in accordance with the plan I laid down for effecting
      our retreat from York. On the next day I followed them alone, with the
      luggage. On leaving the terminus, I had the satisfaction of seeing the
      lawyer&rsquo;s clerk in close confabulation with the detective officer whose
      advent I had prophesied. I left him in peaceable possession of the city of
      York, and the whole surrounding neighborhood. He has returned the
      compliment, and has left us in peaceable possession of the valley of the
      Esk, thirty miles away from him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Remarkable results have followed my first efforts at the cultivation of
      Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s dramatic abilities.
    </p>
    <p>
      I have discovered that she possesses extraordinary talent as a mimic. She
      has the flexible face, the manageable voice, and the dramatic knack which
      fit a woman for character-parts and disguises on the stage. All she now
      wants is teaching and practice, to make her sure of her own resources. The
      experience of her, thus gained, has revived an idea in my mind which
      originally occurred to me at one of the &ldquo;At Homes&rdquo; of the late inimitable
      Charles Mathews, comedian. I was in the Wine Trade at the time, I
      remember. We imitated the Vintage-processes of Nature in a back-kitchen at
      Brompton, and produced a dinner-sherry, pale and curious, tonic in
      character, round in the mouth, a favorite with the Court of Spain, at
      nineteen-and-sixpence a dozen, bottles included&mdash;<i>Vide</i>
      Prospectus of the period. The profits of myself and partners were small;
      we were in advance of the tastes of the age, and in debt to the bottle
      merchant. Being at my wits&rsquo; end for want of money, and seeing what
      audiences Mathews drew, the idea occurred to me of starting an imitation
      of the great Imitator himself, in the shape of an &ldquo;At Home,&rdquo; given by a
      woman. The one trifling obstacle in the way was the difficulty of finding
      the woman. From that time to this, I have hitherto failed to overcome it.
      I have conquered it at last; I have found the woman now. Miss Vanstone
      possesses youth and beauty as well as talent. Train her in the art of
      dramatic disguise; provide her with appropriate dresses for different
      characters; develop her accomplishments in singing and playing; give her
      plenty of smart talk addressed to the audience; advertise her as a Young
      Lady at Home; astonish the public by a dramatic entertainment which
      depends from first to last on that young lady&rsquo;s own sole exertions; commit
      the entire management of the thing to my care&mdash;and what follows as a
      necessary con sequence? Fame for my fair relative, and a fortune for
      myself.
    </p>
    <p>
      I put these considerations, as frankly as usual, to Miss Vanstone;
      offering to write the Entertainment, to manage all the business, and to
      share the profits. I did not forget to strengthen my case by informing her
      of the jealousies she would encounter, and the obstacles she would meet,
      if she went on the stage. And I wound up by a neat reference to the
      private inquiries which she is interested in making, and to the personal
      independence which she is desirous of securing before she acts on her
      information. &ldquo;If you go on the stage,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;your services will be
      bought by a manager, and he may insist on his claims just at the time when
      you want to get free from him. If, on the contrary, you adopt my views,
      you will be your own mistress and your own manager, and you can settle
      your course just as you like.&rdquo; This last consideration appeared to strike
      her. She took a day to consider it; and, when the day was over, gave her
      consent.
    </p>
    <p>
      I had the whole transaction down in black and white immediately. Our
      arrangement is eminently satisfactory, except in one particular. She shows
      a morbid distrust of writing her name at the bottom of any document which
      I present to her, and roundly declares she will sign nothing. As long as
      it is her interest to provide herself with pecuniary resources for the
      future, she verbally engages to go on. When it ceases to be her interest,
      she plainly threatens to leave off at a week&rsquo;s notice. A difficult girl to
      deal with; she has found out her own value to me already. One comfort is,
      I have the cooking of the accounts; and my fair relative shall not fill
      her pockets too suddenly if I can help it.
    </p>
    <p>
      My exertions in training Miss Vanstone for the coming experiment have been
      varied by the writing of two anonymous letters in that young lady&rsquo;s
      interests. Finding her too fidgety about arranging matters with her
      friends to pay proper attention to my instructions, I wrote anonymously to
      the lawyer who is conducting the inquiry after her, recommending him, in a
      friendly way, to give it up. The letter was inclosed to a friend of mine
      in London, with instructions to post it at Charing Cross. A week later I
      sent a second letter, through the same channel, requesting the lawyer to
      inform me, in writing, whether he and his clients had or had not decided
      on taking my advice. I directed him, with jocose reference to the
      collision of interests between us, to address his letter: &ldquo;Tit for Tat,
      Post-office, West Strand.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In a few days the answer arrived&mdash;privately forwarded, of course, to
      Post-office, Whitby, by arrangement with my friend in London.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lawyer&rsquo;s reply was short and surly: &ldquo;SIR&mdash;If my advice had been
      followed, you and your anonymous letter would both be treated with the
      contempt which they deserve. But the wishes of Miss Magdalen Vanstone&rsquo;s
      eldest sister have claims on my consideration which I cannot dispute; and
      at her entreaty I inform you that all further proceedings on my part are
      withdrawn&mdash;on the express understanding that this concession is to
      open facilities for written communication, at least, between the two
      sisters. A letter from the elder Miss Vanstone is inclosed in this. If I
      don&rsquo;t hear in a week&rsquo;s time that it has been received, I shall place the
      matter once more in the hands of the police.&mdash;WILLIAM PENDRIL.&rdquo; A
      sour man, this William Pendril. I can only say of him what an eminent
      nobleman once said of his sulky servant&mdash;&ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t have such a
      temper as that fellow has got for any earthly consideration that could be
      offered me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As a matter of course, I looked into the letter which the lawyer inclosed,
      before delivering it. Miss Vanstone, the elder, described herself as
      distracted at not hearing from her sister; as suited with a governess&rsquo;s
      situation in a private family; as going into the situation in a week&rsquo;s
      time; and as longing for a letter to comfort her, before she faced the
      trial of undertaking her new duties. After closing the envelope again, I
      accompanied the delivery of the letter to Miss Vanstone, the younger, by a
      word of caution. &ldquo;Are you more sure of your own courage now,&rdquo; I said,
      &ldquo;than you were when I met you?&rdquo; She was ready with her answer. &ldquo;Captain
      Wragge, when you met me on the Walls of York I had not gone too far to go
      back. I have gone too far now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If she really feels this&mdash;and I think she does&mdash;her
      corresponding with her sister can do no harm. She wrote at great length
      the same day; cried profusely over her own epistolary composition; and was
      remarkably ill-tempered and snappish toward me, when we met in the
      evening. She wants experience, poor girl&mdash;she sadly wants experience
      of the world. How consoling to know that I am just the man to give it her!
    </p>
    <p>
      II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for November.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      We are established at Derby. The Entertainment is written; and the
      rehearsals are in steady progress. All difficulties are provided for, but
      the one eternal difficulty of money. Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s resources stretch
      easily enough to the limits of our personal wants; including piano-forte
      hire for practice, and the purchase and making of the necessary dresses.
      But the expenses of starting the Entertainment are beyond the reach of any
      means we possess. A theatrical friend of mine here, whom I had hoped to
      interest in our undertaking, proves, unhappily, to be at a crisis in his
      career. The field of human sympathy, out of which I might have raised the
      needful pecuniary crop, is closed to me from want of time to cultivate it.
      I see no other resource left&mdash;if we are to be ready by Christmas&mdash;than
      to try one of the local music-sellers in this town, who is said to be a
      speculating man. A private rehearsal at these lodgings, and a bargain
      which will fill the pockets of a grasping stranger&mdash;such are the
      sacrifices which dire necessity imposes on me at starting. Well! there is
      only one consolation: I&rsquo;ll cheat the music-seller.
    </p>
    <p>
      III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for December. First Fortnight.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      The music-seller extorts my unwilling respect. He is one of the very few
      human beings I have met with in the course of my life who is not to be
      cheated. He has taken a masterly advantage of our helplessness; and has
      imposed terms on us, for performances at Derby and Nottingham, with such a
      business-like disregard of all interests but his own that&mdash;fond as I
      am of putting things down in black and white&mdash;I really cannot prevail
      upon myself to record the bargain. It is needless to say, I have yielded
      with my best grace; sharing with my fair relative the wretched pecuniary
      prospects offered to us. Our turn will come. In the meantime, I cordially
      regret not having known the local music-seller in early life.
    </p>
    <p>
      Personally speaking, I have no cause to complain of Miss Vanstone. We have
      arranged that she shall regularly forward her address (at the post-office)
      to her friends, as we move about from place to place. Besides
      communicating in this way with her sister, she also reports herself to a
      certain Mr. Clare, residing in Somersetshire, who is to forward all
      letters exchanged between herself and his son. Careful inquiry has
      informed me that this latter individual is now in China. Having suspected
      from the first that there was a gentleman in the background, it is highly
      satisfactory to know that he recedes into the remote perspective of Asia.
      Long may he remain there!
    </p>
    <p>
      The trifling responsibility of finding a name for our talented Magdalen to
      perform under has been cast on my shoulders. She feels no interest
      whatever in this part of the subject. &ldquo;Give me any name you like,&rdquo; she
      said; &ldquo;I have as much right to one as to another. Make it yourself.&rdquo; I
      have readily consented to gratify her wishes. The resources of my
      commercial library include a list of useful names to assume; and we can
      choose one at five minutes&rsquo; notice, when the admirable man of business who
      now oppresses us is ready to issue his advertisements. On this point my
      mind is easy enough: all my anxieties center in the fair performer. I have
      not the least doubt she will do wonders if she is only left to herself on
      the first night. But if the day&rsquo;s post is mischievous enough to upset her
      by a letter from her sister, I tremble for the consequences.
    </p>
    <p>
      IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for December. Second Fortnight.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      My gifted relative has made her first appearance in public, and has laid
      the foundation of our future fortunes.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the first night the attendance was larger than I had ventured to hope.
      The novelty of an evening&rsquo;s entertainment, conducted from beginning to end
      by the unaided exertions of a young lady (see advertisement), roused the
      public curiosity, and the seats were moderately well filled. As good luck
      would have it, no letter addressed to Miss Vanstone came that day. She was
      in full possession of herself until she got the first dress on and heard
      the bell ring for the music. At that critical moment she suddenly broke
      down. I found her alone in the waiting-room, sobbing, and talking like a
      child. &ldquo;Oh, poor papa! poor papa! Oh, my God, if he saw me now!&rdquo; My
      experience in such matters at once informed me that it was a case of
      sal-volatile, accompanied by sound advice. We strung her up in no time to
      concert pitch; set her eyes in a blaze; and made her out-blush her own
      rouge. The curtain rose when we had got her at a red heat. She dashed at
      it exactly as she dashed at it in the back drawing-room at Rosemary Lane.
      Her personal appearance settled the question of her reception before she
      opened her lips. She rushed full gallop through her changes of character,
      her songs, and her dialogue; making mistakes by the dozen, and never
      stopping to set them right; carrying the people along with her in a
      perfect whirlwind, and never waiting for the applause. The whole thing was
      over twenty minutes sooner than the time we had calculated on. She carried
      it through to the end, and fainted on the waiting-room sofa a minute after
      the curtain was down. The music-seller having taken leave of his senses
      from sheer astonishment, and I having no evening costume to appear in, we
      sent the doctor to make the necessary apology to the public, who were
      calling for her till the place rang again. I prompted our medical orator
      with a neat speech from behind the curtain; and I never heard such
      applause, from such a comparatively small audience, before in my life. I
      felt the tribute&mdash;I felt it deeply. Fourteen years ago I scraped
      together the wretched means of existence in this very town by reading the
      newspaper (with explanatory comments) to the company at a public-house.
      And now here I am at the top of the tree.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is needless to say that my first proceeding was to bowl out the
      music-seller on the spot. He called the next morning, no doubt with a
      liberal proposal for extending the engagement beyond Derby and Nottingham.
      My niece was described as not well enough to see him; and, when he asked
      for me, he was told I was not up. I happened to be at that moment engaged
      in putting the case pathetically to our gifted Magdalen. Her answer was in
      the highest degree satisfactory. She would permanently engage herself to
      nobody&mdash;least of all to a man who had taken sordid advantage of her
      position and mine. She would be her own mistress, and share the profits
      with me, while she wanted money, and while it suited her to go on. So far
      so good. But the reason she added next, for her flattering preference of
      myself, was less to my taste. &ldquo;The music-seller is not the man whom I
      employ to make my inquiries,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You are the man.&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t like
      her steadily remembering those inquiries, in the first bewilderment of her
      success. It looks ill for the future; it looks infernally ill for the
      future.
    </p>
    <p>
      V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for January, 1847.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      She has shown the cloven foot already. I begin to be a little afraid of
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the conclusion of the Nottingham engagement (the results of which more
      than equaled the results at Derby), I proposed taking the entertainment
      next&mdash;now we had got it into our own hands&mdash;to Newark. Miss
      Vanstone raised no objection until we came to the question of time, when
      she amazed me by stipulating for a week&rsquo;s delay before we appeared in
      public again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For what possible purpose?&rdquo; I asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the purpose of making the inquiries which I mentioned to you at
      York,&rdquo; she answered.
    </p>
    <p>
      I instantly enlarged on the danger of delay, putting all the
      considerations before her in every imaginable form. She remained perfectly
      immovable. I tried to shake her on the question of expenses. She answered
      by handing me over her share of the proceeds at Derby and Nottingham&mdash;and
      there were my expenses paid, at the rate of nearly two guineas a day. I
      wonder who first picked out a mule as the type of obstinacy? How little
      knowledge that man must have had of women!
    </p>
    <p>
      There was no help for it. I took down my instructions in black and white,
      as usual. My first exertions were to be directed to the discovery of Mr.
      Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s address: I was also expected to find out how long he
      was likely to live there, and whether he had sold Combe-Raven or not. My
      next inquiries were to inform me of his ordinary habits of life; of what
      he did with his money; of who his intimate friends were; and of the sort
      of terms on which his son, Mr. Noel Vanstone, was now living with him.
      Lastly, the investigations were to end in discovering whether there was
      any female relative, or any woman exercising domestic authority in the
      house, who was known to have an influence over either father or son.
    </p>
    <p>
      If my long practice in cultivating the field of human sympathy had not
      accustomed me to private investigations into the affairs of other people,
      I might have found some of these queries rather difficult to deal with in
      the course of a week. As it was, I gave myself all the benefit of my own
      experience, and brought the answers back to Nottingham in a day less than
      the given time. Here they are, in regular order, for convenience of future
      reference:
    </p>
    <p>
      (1.) Mr. Michael Vanstone is now residing at German Place, Brighton, and
      likely to remain there, as he finds the air suits him. He reached London
      from Switzerland in September last; and sold the Combe-Raven property
      immediately on his arrival.
    </p>
    <p>
      (2.) His ordinary habits of life are secret and retired; he seldom visits,
      or receives company. Part of his money is supposed to be in the Funds, and
      part laid out in railway investments, which have survived the panic of
      eighteen hundred and forty-six, and are rapidly rising in value. He is
      said to be a bold speculator. Since his arrival in England he has
      invested, with great judgment, in house property. He has some houses in
      remote parts of London, and some houses in certain watering-places on the
      east coast, which are shown to be advancing in public repute. In all these
      cases he is reported to have made remarkably good bargains.
    </p>
    <p>
      (3.) It is not easy to discover who his intimate friends are. Two names
      only have been ascertained. The first is Admiral Bartram; supposed to have
      been under friendly obligations, in past years, to Mr. Michael Vanstone.
      The second is Mr. George Bartram, nephew of the Admiral, and now staying
      on a short visit in the house at German Place. Mr. George Bartram is the
      son of the late Mr. Andrew Vanstone&rsquo;s sister, also deceased. He is
      therefore a cousin of Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s. This last&mdash;viz., Mr. Noel
      Vanstone&mdash;is in delicate health, and is living on excellent terms
      with his father in German Place.
    </p>
    <p>
      (4.) There is no female relative in Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s family circle.
      But there is a housekeeper who has lived in his service ever since his
      wife&rsquo;s death, and who has acquired a strong influence over both father and
      son. She is a native of Switzerland, elderly, and a widow. Her name is
      Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      On placing these particulars in Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s hands, she made no remark,
      except to thank me. I endeavored to invite her confidence. No results;
      nothing but a renewal of civility, and a sudden shifting to the subject of
      the Entertainment. Very good. If she won&rsquo;t give me the information I want,
      the conclusion is obvious&mdash;I must help myself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Business considerations claim the remainder of this page. Let me return to
      business.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-Financial
     Statement   |    Third Week in January
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-Place
     Visited,     |      Perform ances,     Newark.       |        Two
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-Net
     Receipts,     |      Net Receipts,  In black and white.    |
     Actually Realized.    25 pounds      |     32 pounds 10s.
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;Apparent
     Div. of Profits, |   Actual Div. of Profits,               |
     Miss V............12 10  |   Miss V...........12 10
     Self..............12 10  |   Self.............20 00
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-Private
     Surplus on the Week,             Or say,        Self-presented
     Testimonial.            7 pounds 10s.
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-Audited,
     |     Passed correct,               |   H. WRAGGE.       |
     H. WRAGGE
    &mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;-
</pre>
    <p>
      The next stronghold of British sympathy which we take by storm is
      Sheffield. We open the first week in February.
    </p>
    <p>
      VI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for February.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      Practice has now given my fair relative the confidence which I predicted
      would come with time. Her knack of disguising her own identity in the
      impersonation of different characters so completely staggers her audiences
      that the same people come twice over to find out how she does it. It is
      the amiable defect of the English public never to know when they have had
      enough of a good thing. They actually try to encore one of her characters&mdash;an
      old north-country lady; modeled on that honored preceptress in the late
      Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s family to whom I presented myself at Combe-Raven. This
      particular performance fairly amazes the people. I don&rsquo;t wonder at it.
      Such an extraordinary assumption of age by a girl of nineteen has never
      been seen in public before, in the whole course of my theatrical
      experience.
    </p>
    <p>
      I find myself writing in a lower tone than usual; I miss my own dash of
      humor. The fact is, I am depressed about the future. In the very height of
      our prosperity my perverse pupil sticks to her trumpery family quarrel. I
      feel myself at the mercy of the first whim in the Vanstone direction which
      may come into her head&mdash;I, the architect of her fortunes. Too bad;
      upon my soul, too bad.
    </p>
    <p>
      She has acted already on the inquiries which she forced me to make for
      her. She has written two letters to Mr. Michael Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      To the first letter no answer came. To the second a reply was received.
      Her infernal cleverness put an obstacle I had not expected in the way of
      my intercepting it. Later in the day, after she had herself opened and
      read the answer, I laid another trap for her. It just succeeded, and no
      more. I had half a minute to look into the envelope in her absence. It
      contained nothing but her own letter returned. She is not the girl to put
      up quietly with such an insult as this. Mischief will come of it&mdash;Mischief
      to Michael Vanstone&mdash;which is of no earthly consequence: mischief to
      Me&mdash;which is a truly serious matter.
    </p>
    <p>
      VII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for March.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      After performing at Sheffield and Manchester, we have moved to Liverpool,
      Preston, and Lancaster. Another change in this weathercock of a girl. She
      has written no more letters to Michael Vanstone; and she has become as
      anxious to make money as I am myself. We are realizing large profits, and
      we are worked to death. I don&rsquo;t like this change in her: she has a purpose
      to answer, or she would not show such extraordinary eagerness to fill her
      purse. Nothing I can do&mdash;no cooking of accounts; no self-presented
      testimonials&mdash;can keep that purse empty. The success of the
      Entertainment, and her own sharpness in looking after her interests,
      literally force me into a course of comparative honesty. She puts into her
      pocket more than a third of the profits, in defiance of my most arduous
      exertions to prevent her. And this at my age! this after my long and
      successful career as a moral agriculturist! Marks of admiration are very
      little things; but they express my feelings, and I put them in freely.
    </p>
    <p>
      VIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for April and May.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      We have visited seven more large towns, and are now at Birmingham.
      Consulting my books, I find that Miss Vanstone has realized by the
      Entertainment, up to this time, the enormous sum of nearly four hundred
      pounds. It is quite possible that my own profits may reach one or two
      miserable hundred more. But I was the architect of her fortunes&mdash;the
      publisher, so to speak, of her book&mdash;and, if anything, I am
      underpaid.
    </p>
    <p>
      I made the above discovery on the twenty-ninth of the month&mdash;anniversary
      of the Restoration of my royal predecessor in the field of human
      sympathies, Charles the Second. I had barely finished locking up my
      dispatch-box, when the ungrateful girl, whose reputation I have made, came
      into the room and told me in so many words that the business connection
      between us was for the present at an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      I attempt no description of my own sensations: I merely record facts. She
      informed me, with an appearance of perfect composure, that she needed
      rest, and that she had &ldquo;new objects in view.&rdquo; She might possibly want me
      to assist those objects; and she might possibly return to the
      Entertainment. In either case it would be enough if we exchanged
      addresses, at which we could write to each other in case of need. Having
      no desire to leave me too abruptly, she would remain the next day (which
      was Sunday); and would take her departure on Monday morning. Such was her
      explanation, in so many words.
    </p>
    <p>
      Remonstrance, as I knew by experience, would be thrown away. Authority I
      had none to exert. My one sensible course to take in this emergency was to
      find out which way my own interests pointed, and to go that way without a
      moment&rsquo;s unnecessary hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      A very little reflection has since convinced me that she has a deep-laid
      scheme against Michael Vanstone in view. She is young, handsome, clever,
      and unscrupulous; she has made money to live on, and has time at her
      disposal to find out the weak side of an old man; and she is going to
      attack Mr. Michael Vanstone unawares with the legitimate weapons of her
      sex. Is she likely to want me for such a purpose as this? Doubtful. Is she
      merely anxious to get rid of me on easy terms? Probable. Am I the sort of
      man to be treated in this way by my own pupil? Decidedly not: I am the man
      to see my way through a neat succession of alternatives; and here they
      are:
    </p>
    <p>
      First alternative: To announce my compliance with her proposal; to
      exchange addresses with her; and then to keep my eye privately on all her
      future movements. Second alternative: to express fond anxiety in a
      paternal capacity; and to threaten giving the alarm to her sister and the
      lawyer, if she persists in her design. Third alternative: to turn the
      information I already possess to the best account, by making it a
      marketable commodity between Mr. Michael Vanstone and myself. At present I
      incline toward the last of these three courses. But my decision is far too
      important to be hurried. To-day is only the twenty-ninth. I will suspend
      my Chronicle of Events until Monday.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>May 31st</i>.&mdash;My alternatives and her plans are both overthrown
      together.
    </p>
    <p>
      The newspaper came in, as usual, after breakfast. I looked it over, and
      discovered this memorable entry among the obituary announcements of the
      day:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the 29th inst., at Brighton, Michael Vanstone, Esq., formerly of
      Zurich, aged 77.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Vanstone was present in the room when I read those two startling
      lines. Her bonnet was on; her boxes were packed; she was waiting
      impatiently until it was time to go to the train. I handed the paper to
      her, without a word on my side. Without a word on hers, she looked where I
      pointed, and read the news of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s death.
    </p>
    <p>
      The paper dropped out of her hand, and she suddenly pulled down her veil.
      I caught one glance at her face before she hid it from me. The effect on
      my mind was startling in the extreme. To put it with my customary dash of
      humor&mdash;her face informed me that the most sensible action which
      Michael Vanstone, Esq., formerly of Zurich, had ever achieved in his life
      was the action he performed at Brighton on the 29th instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      Finding the dead silence in the room singularly unpleasant under existing
      circumstances, I thought I would make a remark. My regard for my own
      interests supplied me with a subject. I mentioned the Entertainment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After what has happened,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I presume we go on with our
      performances as usual?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she answered, behind the veil. &ldquo;We go on with my inquiries.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Inquiries after a dead man?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Inquiries after the dead man&rsquo;s son.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Noel Vanstone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; Mr. Noel Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Not having a veil to put down over my own face, I stooped and picked up
      the newspaper. Her devilish determination quite upset me for the moment. I
      actually had to steady myself before I could speak to her again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are the new inquiries as harmless as the old ones?&rdquo; I asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite as harmless.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What am I expected to find out?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish to know whether Mr. Noel Vanstone remains at Brighton after the
      funeral.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And if not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If not, I shall want to know his new address wherever it may be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. And what next?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish you to find out next if all the father&rsquo;s money goes to the son.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      I began to see her drift. The word money relieved me; I felt quite on my
      own ground again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anything more?&rdquo; I asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only one thing more,&rdquo; she answered. &ldquo;Make sure, if you please, whether
      Mrs. Lecount, the housekeeper, remains or not in Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      service.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice altered a little as she mentioned Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s name; she is
      evidently sharp enough to distrust the housekeeper already.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My expenses are to be paid as usual?&rdquo; I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As usual.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When am I expected to leave for Brighton?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As soon as you can.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose, and left the room. After a momentary doubt, I decided on
      executing the new commission. The more private inquiries I conduct for my
      fair relative the harder she will find it to get rid of hers truly,
      Horatio Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      There is nothing to prevent my starting for Brighton to-morrow. So
      to-morrow I go. If Mr. Noel Vanstone succeeds to his father&rsquo;s property, he
      is the only human being possessed of pecuniary blessings who fails to
      inspire me with a feeling of unmitigated envy.
    </p>
    <p>
      IX.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Chronicle for June</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>9th</i>.&mdash;I returned yesterday with my information. Here it is,
      privately noted down for convenience of future reference:
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Noel Vanstone has left Brighton, and has removed, for the purpose of
      transacting business in London, to one of his late father&rsquo;s empty houses
      in Vauxhall Walk, Lambeth. This singularly mean selection of a place of
      residence on the part of a gentleman of fortune looks as if Mr. N. V. and
      his money were not easily parted.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Noel Vanstone has stepped into his father&rsquo;s shoes under the following
      circumstances: Mr. Michael Vanstone appears to have died, curiously
      enough, as Mr. Andrew Vanstone died&mdash;intestate. With this difference,
      however, in the two cases, that the younger brother left an informal will,
      and the elder brother left no will at all. The hardest men have their
      weaknesses; and Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s weakness seems to have been an
      insurmountable horror of contemplating the event of his own death. His
      son, his housekeeper, and his lawyer, had all three tried over and over
      again to get him to make a will; and had never shaken his obstinate
      resolution to put off performing the only business duty he was ever known
      to neglect. Two doctors attended him in his last illness; warned him that
      he was too old a man to hope to get over it; and warned him in vain. He
      announced his own positive determination not to die. His last words in
      this world (as I succeeded in discovering from the nurse who assisted Mrs.
      Lecount) were: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m getting better every minute; send for the fly directly
      and take me out for a drive.&rdquo; The same night Death proved to be the more
      obstinate of the two; and left his son (and only child) to take the
      property in due course of law. Nobody doubts that the result would have
      been the same if a will had been made. The father and son had every
      confidence in each other, and were known to have always lived together on
      the most friendly terms.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount remains with Mr. Noel Vanstone, in the same housekeeping
      capacity which she filled with his father, and has accompanied him to the
      new residence in Vauxhall Walk. She is acknowledged on all hands to have
      been a sufferer by the turn events have taken. If Mr. Michael Vanstone had
      made his will, there is no doubt she would have received a handsome
      legacy. She is now left dependent on Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s sense of
      gratitude; and she is not at all likely, I should imagine, to let that
      sense fall asleep for want of a little timely jogging. Whether my fair
      relative&rsquo;s future intentions in this quarter point toward Mischief or
      Money, is more than I can yet say. In either case, I venture to predict
      that she will find an awkward obstacle in Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      So much for my information to the present date. The manner in which it was
      received by Miss Vanstone showed the most ungrateful distrust of me. She
      confided nothing to my private ear but the expression of her best thanks.
      A sharp girl&mdash;a devilish sharp girl. But there is such a thing as
      bowling a man out once too often; especially when the name of that man
      happens to be Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not a word more about the Entertainment; not a word more about moving from
      our present quarters. Very good. My right hand lays my left hand a wager.
      Ten to one, on her opening communications with the son as she opened them
      with the father. Ten to one, on her writing to Noel Vanstone before the
      month is out.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>21st</i>.&mdash;She has written by to-day&rsquo;s post. A long letter,
      apparently&mdash;for she put two stamps on the envelope. (Private
      memorandum, addressed to myself. Wait for the answer.)
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>22d, 23d, 24th.</i>&mdash;(Private memorandum continued. Wait for the
      answer.)
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>25th.</i>&mdash;The answer has come. As an ex-military man, I have
      naturally employed stratagem to get at it. The success which rewards all
      genuine perseverance has rewarded me&mdash;and I have got at it
      accordingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      The letter is written, not by Mr. Noel Vanstone, but by Mrs. Lecount. She
      takes the highest moral ground, in a tone of spiteful politeness. Mr. Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s delicate health and recent bereavement prevent him from writing
      himself. Any more letters from Miss Vanstone will be returned unopened.
      Any personal application will produce an immediate appeal to the
      protection of the law. Mr. Noel Vanstone, having been expressly cautioned
      against Miss Magdalen Vanstone by his late lamented father, has not yet
      forgotten his father&rsquo;s advice. Considers it a reflection cast on the
      memory of the best of men, to suppose that his course of action toward the
      Misses Vanstone can be other than the course of action which his father
      pursued. This is what he has himself instructed Mrs. Lecount to say. She
      has endeavored to express herself in the most conciliatory language she
      could select; she had tried to avoid giving unnecessary pain, by
      addressing Miss Vanstone (as a matter of courtesy) by the family name; and
      she trusts these concessions, which speak for themselves, will not be
      thrown away.&mdash;Such is the substance of the letter, and so it ends.
    </p>
    <p>
      I draw two conclusions from this little document. First&mdash;that it will
      lead to serious results. Secondly&mdash;that Mrs. Lecount, with all her
      politeness, is a dangerous woman to deal with. I wish I saw my way safe
      before me. I don&rsquo;t see it yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>29th.</i>&mdash;Miss Vanstone has abandoned my protection; and the
      whole lucrative future of the dramatic entertainment has abandoned me with
      her. I am swindled&mdash;I, the last man under heaven who could possibly
      have expected to write in those disgraceful terms of myself&mdash;I AM
      SWINDLED!
    </p>
    <p>
      Let me chronicle the events. They exhibit me, for the time being, in a
      sadly helpless point of view. But the nature of the man prevails: I must
      have the events down in black and white.
    </p>
    <p>
      The announcement of her approaching departure was intimated to me
      yesterday. After another civil speech about the information I had procured
      at Brighton, she hinted that there was a necessity for pushing our
      inquiries a little further. I immediately offered to undertake them, as
      before. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;they are not in your way this time. They are
      inquiries relating to a woman; and I mean to make them myself!&rdquo; Feeling
      privately convinced that this new resolution pointed straight at Mrs.
      Lecount, I tried a few innocent questions on the subject. She quietly
      declined to answer them. I asked next when she proposed to leave. She
      would leave on the twenty-eighth. For what destination? London. For long?
      Probably not. By herself? No. With me? No. With whom then? With Mrs.
      Wragge, if I had no objection. Good heavens! for what possible purpose?
      For the purpose of getting a respectable lodging, which she could hardly
      expect to accomplish unless she was accompanied by an elderly female
      friend. And was I, in the capacity of elderly male friend, to be left out
      of the business altogether? Impossible to say at present. Was I not even
      to forward any letters which might come for her at our present address?
      No: she would make the arrangement herself at the post-office; and she
      would ask me, at the same time, for an address, at which I could receive a
      letter from her, in case of necessity for future communication. Further
      inquiries, after this last answer, could lead to nothing but waste of
      time. I saved time by putting no more questions.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was clear to me that our present position toward each other was what
      our position had been previously to the event of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s death.
      I returned, as before, to my choice of alternatives. Which way did my
      private interests point? Toward trusting the chance of her wanting me
      again? Toward threatening her with the interference of her relatives and
      friends? Or toward making the information which I possessed a marketable
      commodity between the wealthy branch of the family and myself? The last of
      the three was the alternative I had chosen in the case of the father. I
      chose it once more in the case of the son.
    </p>
    <p>
      The train started for London nearly four hours since, and took her away in
      it, accompanied by Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      My wife is too great a fool, poor soul, to be actively valuable in the
      present emergency; but she will be passively useful in keeping up Miss
      Vanstone&rsquo;s connection with me&mdash;and, in consideration of that
      circumstance, I consent to brush my own trousers, shave my own chin, and
      submit to the other inconveniences of waiting on myself for a limited
      period. Any faint glimmerings of sense which Mrs. Wragge may have formerly
      possessed appear to have now finally taken their leave of her. On
      receiving permission to go to London, she favored us immediately with two
      inquiries. Might she do some shopping? and might she leave the
      cookery-book behind her? Miss Vanstone said Yes to one question, and I
      said Yes to the other&mdash;and from that moment, Mrs. Wragge has existed
      in a state of perpetual laughter. I am still hoarse with vainly repeated
      applications of vocal stimulant; and I left her in the railway carriage,
      to my inexpressible disgust, with <i>both</i> shoes down at heel.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under ordinary circumstances these absurd particulars would not have dwelt
      on my memory. But, as matters actually stand, my unfortunate wife&rsquo;s
      imbecility may, in her present position, lead to consequences which we
      none of us foresee. She is nothing more or less than a grown-up child; and
      I can plainly detect that Miss Vanstone trusts her, as she would not have
      trusted a sharper woman, on that very account. I know children, little and
      big, rather better than my fair relative does; and I say&mdash;beware of
      all forms of human innocence, when it happens to be your interest to keep
      a secret to yourself.
    </p>
    <p>
      Let me return to business. Here I am, at two o&rsquo;clock on a fine summer&rsquo;s
      afternoon, left entirely alone, to consider the safest means of
      approaching Mr. Noel Vanstone on my own account. My private suspicions of
      his miserly character produce no discouraging effect on me. I have
      extracted cheering pecuniary results in my time from people quite as fond
      of their money as he can be. The real difficulty to contend with is the
      obstacle of Mrs. Lecount. If I am not mistaken, this lady merits a little
      serious consideration on my part. I will close my chronicle for to-day,
      and give Mrs. Lecount her due.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Three o&rsquo;clock.</i>&mdash;I open these pages again to record a discovery
      which has taken me entirely by surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      After completing the last entry, a circumstance revived in my memory which
      I had noticed on escorting the ladies this morning to the railway. I then
      remarked that Miss Vanstone had only taken one of her three boxes with her&mdash;and
      it now occurred to me that a private investigation of the luggage she had
      left behind might possibly be attended with beneficial results. Having, at
      certain periods of my life been in the habit of cultivating friendly terms
      with strange locks, I found no difficulty in establishing myself on a
      familiar footing with Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s boxes. One of the two presented
      nothing to interest me. The other&mdash;devoted to the preservation of the
      costumes, articles of toilet, and other properties used in the dramatic
      Entertainment&mdash;proved to be better worth examining: for it led me
      straight to the discovery of one of its owner&rsquo;s secrets.
    </p>
    <p>
      I found all the dresses in the box complete&mdash;with one remarkable
      exception. That exception was the dress of the old north-country lady; the
      character which I have already mentioned as the best of all my pupil&rsquo;s
      disguises, and as modeled in voice and manner on her old governess, Miss
      Garth. The wig; the eyebrows; the bonnet and veil; the cloak, padded
      inside to disfigure her back and shoulders; the paints and cosmetics used
      to age her face and alter her complexion&mdash;were all gone. Nothing but
      the gown remained; a gaudily-flowered silk, useful enough for dramatic
      purposes, but too extravagant in color and pattern to bear inspection by
      daylight. The other parts of the dress are sufficiently quiet to pass
      muster; the bonnet and veil are only old-fashioned, and the cloak is of a
      sober gray color. But one plain inference can be drawn from such a
      discovery as this. As certainly as I sit here, she is going to open the
      campaign against Noel Vanstone and Mrs. Lecount in a character which
      neither of those two persons can have any possible reason for suspecting
      at the outset&mdash;the character of Miss Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      What course am I to take under these circumstances? Having got her secret,
      what am I to do with it? These are awkward considerations; I am rather
      puzzled how to deal with them.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is something more than the mere fact of her choosing to disguise
      herself to forward her own private ends that causes my present perplexity.
      Hundreds of girls take fancies for disguising themselves; and hundreds of
      instances of it are related year after year in the public journals. But my
      ex-pupil is not to be confounded for one moment with the average
      adventuress of the newspapers. She is capable of going a long way beyond
      the limit of dressing herself like a man, and imitating a man&rsquo;s voice and
      manner. She has a natural gift for assuming characters which I have never
      seen equaled by a woman; and she has performed in public until she has
      felt her own power, and trained her talent for disguising herself to the
      highest pitch. A girl who takes the sharpest people unawares by using such
      a capacity as this to help her own objects in private life, and who
      sharpens that capacity by a determination to fight her way to her own
      purpose, which has beaten down everything before it, up to this time&mdash;is
      a girl who tries an experiment in deception, new enough and dangerous
      enough to lead, one way or the other, to very serious results. This is my
      conviction, founded on a large experience in the art of imposing on my
      fellow-creatures. I say of my fair relative&rsquo;s enterprise what I never said
      or thought of it till I introduced myself to the inside of her box. The
      chances for and against her winning the fight for her lost fortune are now
      so evenly balanced that I cannot for the life of me see on which side the
      scale inclines. All I can discern is, that it will, to a dead certainty,
      turn one way or the other on the day when she passes Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s doors
      in disguise.
    </p>
    <p>
      Which way do my interests point now? Upon my honor, I don&rsquo;t know.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Five o&rsquo;clock.</i>&mdash;I have effected a masterly compromise; I have
      decided on turning myself into a Jack-on-both-sides.
    </p>
    <p>
      By to-day&rsquo;s post I have dispatched to London an anonymous letter for Mr.
      Noel Vanstone. It will be forwarded to its destination by the same means
      which I successfully adopted to mystify Mr. Pendril; and it will reach
      Vauxhall Walk, Lambeth, by the afternoon of to-morrow at the latest.
    </p>
    <p>
      The letter is short, and to the purpose. It warns Mr. Noel Vanstone, in
      the most alarming language, that he is destined to become the victim of a
      conspiracy; and that the prime mover of it is a young lady who has already
      held written communication with his father and himself. It offers him the
      information necessary to secure his own safety, on condition that he makes
      it worth the writer&rsquo;s while to run the serious personal risk which such a
      disclosure will entail on him. And it ends by stipulating that the answer
      shall be advertised in the <i>Times</i>; shall be addressed to &ldquo;An Unknown
      Friend&rdquo;; and shall state plainly what remuneration Mr. Noel Vanstone
      offers for the priceless service which it is proposed to render him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Unless some unexpected complication occurs, this letter places me exactly
      in the position which it is my present interest to occupy. If the
      advertisement appears, and if the remuneration offered is large enough to
      justify me in going over to the camp of the enemy, over I go. If no
      advertisement appears, or if Mr. Noel Vanstone rates my invaluable
      assistance at too low a figure, here I remain, biding my time till my fair
      relative wants me, or till I make her want me, which comes to the same
      thing. If the anonymous letter falls by any accident into her hands, she
      will find disparaging allusions in it to myself, purposely introduced to
      suggest that the writer must be one of the persons whom I addressed while
      conducting her inquiries. If Mrs. Lecount takes the business in hand and
      lays a trap for me&mdash;I decline her tempting invitation by becoming
      totally ignorant of the whole affair the instant any second person appears
      in it. Let the end come as it may, here I am ready to profit by it: here I
      am, facing both ways, with perfect ease and security&mdash;a moral
      agriculturist, with his eye on two crops at once, and his swindler&rsquo;s
      sickle ready for any emergency.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the next week to come, the newspaper will be more interesting to me
      than ever. I wonder which side I shall eventually belong to?
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE THIRD SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      VAUXHALL WALK, LAMBETH
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE old Archiepiscopal Palace of Lambeth, on the southern bank of the
      Thames&mdash;with its Bishop&rsquo;s Walk and Garden, and its terrace fronting
      the river&mdash;is an architectural relic of the London of former times,
      precious to all lovers of the picturesque, in the utilitarian London of
      the present day. Southward of this venerable structure lies the street
      labyrinth of Lambeth; and nearly midway, in that part of the maze of
      houses which is placed nearest to the river, runs the dingy double row of
      buildings now, as in former days, known by the name of Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      The network of dismal streets stretching over the surrounding neighborhood
      contains a population for the most part of the poorer order. In the
      thoroughfares where shops abound, the sordid struggle with poverty shows
      itself unreservedly on the filthy pavement; gathers its forces through the
      week; and, strengthening to a tumult on Saturday night, sees the Sunday
      morning dawn in murky gaslight. Miserable women, whose faces never smile,
      haunt the butchers&rsquo; shops in such London localities as these, with relics
      of the men&rsquo;s wages saved from the public-house clutched fast in their
      hands, with eyes that devour the meat they dare not buy, with eager
      fingers that touch it covetously, as the fingers of their richer sisters
      touch a precious stone. In this district, as in other districts remote
      from the wealthy quarters of the metropolis, the hideous London vagabond&mdash;with
      the filth of the street outmatched in his speech, with the mud of the
      street outdirtied in his clothes&mdash;lounges, lowering and brutal, at
      the street corner and the gin-shop door; the public disgrace of his
      country, the unheeded warning of social troubles that are yet to come.
      Here, the loud self-assertion of Modern Progress&mdash;which has reformed
      so much in manners, and altered so little in men&mdash;meets the flat
      contradiction that scatters its pretensions to the winds. Here, while the
      national prosperity feasts, like another Belshazzar, on the spectacle of
      its own magnificence, is the Writing on the Wall, which warns the monarch,
      Money, that his glory is weighed in the balance, and his power found
      wanting.
    </p>
    <p>
      Situated in such a neighborhood as this, Vauxhall Walk gains by
      comparison, and establishes claims to respectability which no impartial
      observation can fail to recognize. A large proportion of the Walk is still
      composed of private houses. In the scattered situations where shops
      appear, those shops are not besieged by the crowds of more populous
      thoroughfares. Commerce is not turbulent, nor is the public consumer
      besieged by loud invitations to &ldquo;buy.&rdquo; Bird-fanciers have sought the
      congenial tranquillity of the scene; and pigeons coo, and canaries
      twitter, in Vauxhall Walk. Second-hand carts and cabs, bedsteads of a
      certain age, detached carriage-wheels for those who may want one to make
      up a set, are all to be found here in the same repository. One tributary
      stream, in the great flood of gas which illuminates London, tracks its
      parent source to Works established in this locality. Here the followers of
      John Wesley have set up a temple, built before the period of Methodist
      conversion to the principles of architectural religion. And here&mdash;most
      striking object of all&mdash;on the site where thousands of lights once
      sparkled; where sweet sounds of music made night tuneful till morning
      dawned; where the beauty and fashion of London feasted and danced through
      the summer seasons of a century&mdash;spreads, at this day, an awful
      wilderness of mud and rubbish; the deserted dead body of Vauxhall Gardens
      mouldering in the open air.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the same day when Captain Wragge completed the last entry in his
      Chronicle of Events, a woman appeared at the window of one of the houses
      in Vauxhall Walk, and removed from the glass a printed paper which had
      been wafered to it announcing that Apartments were to be let. The
      apartments consisted of two rooms on the first floor. They had just been
      taken for a week certain by two ladies who had paid in advance&mdash;those
      two ladies being Magdalen and Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as the mistress of the house had left the room, Magdalen walked to
      the window, and cautiously looked out from it at the row of buildings
      opposite. They were of superior pretensions in size and appearance to the
      other houses in the Walk: the date at which they had been erected was
      inscribed on one of them, and was stated to be the year 1759. They stood
      back from the pavement, separated from it by little strips of
      garden-ground. This peculiarity of position, added to the breadth of the
      roadway interposing between them and the smaller houses opposite, made it
      impossible for Magdalen to see the numbers on the doors, or to observe
      more of any one who might come to the windows than the bare general
      outline of dress and figure. Nevertheless, there she stood, anxiously
      fixing her eyes on one house in the row, nearly opposite to her&mdash;the
      house she had looked for before entering the lodgings; the house inhabited
      at that moment by Noel Vanstone and Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      After keeping watch at the window in silence for ten minutes or more, she
      suddenly looked back into the room, to observe the effect which her
      behavior might have produced on her traveling companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not the slightest cause appeared for any apprehension in that quarter.
      Mrs. Wragge was seated at the table absorbed in the arrangement of a
      series of smart circulars and tempting price-lists, issued by advertising
      trades-people, and flung in at the cab-windows as they left the London
      terminus. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve often heard tell of light reading,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge,
      restlessly shifting the positions of the circulars as a child restlessly
      shifts the position of a new set of toys. &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s light reading, printed
      in pretty colors. Here&rsquo;s all the Things I&rsquo;m going to buy when I&rsquo;m out
      shopping to-morrow. Lend us a pencil, please&mdash;you won&rsquo;t be angry,
      will you? I do so want to mark &lsquo;em off.&rdquo; She looked up at Magdalen,
      chuckled joyfully over her own altered circumstances, and beat her great
      hands on the table in irrepressible delight. &ldquo;No cookery-book!&rdquo; cried Mrs.
      Wragge. &ldquo;No Buzzing in my head! no captain to shave to-morrow! I&rsquo;m all
      down at heel; my cap&rsquo;s on one side; and nobody bawls at me. My heart
      alive, here <i>is</i> a holiday and no mistake!&rdquo; Her hands began to drum
      on the table louder than ever, until Magdalen quieted them by presenting
      her with a pencil. Mrs. Wragge instantly recovered her dignity, squared
      her elbows on the table, and plunged into imaginary shopping for the rest
      of the evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen returned to the window. She took a chair, seated herself behind
      the curtain, and steadily fixed her eyes once more on the house opposite.
    </p>
    <p>
      The blinds were down over the windows of the first floor and the second.
      The window of the room on the ground-floor was uncovered and partly open,
      but no living creature came near it. Doors opened, and people came and
      went, in the houses on either side; children by the dozen poured out on
      the pavement to play, and invaded the little strips of garden-ground to
      recover lost balls and shuttlecocks; streams of people passed backward and
      forward perpetually; heavy wagons piled high with goods lumbered along the
      road on their way to, or their way from, the railway station near; all the
      daily life of the district stirred with its ceaseless activity in every
      direction but one. The hours passed&mdash;and there was the house opposite
      still shut up, still void of any signs of human existence inside or out.
      The one object which had decided Magdalen on personally venturing herself
      in Vauxhall Walk&mdash;the object of studying the looks, manners and
      habits of Mrs. Lecount and her master from a post of observation known
      only to herself&mdash;was thus far utterly defeated. After three hours&rsquo;
      watching at the window, she had not even discovered enough to show her
      that the house was inhabited at all.
    </p>
    <p>
      Shortly after six o&rsquo;clock, the landlady disturbed Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s studies by
      spreading the cloth for dinner. Magdalen placed herself at the table in a
      position which still enabled her to command the view from the window.
      Nothing happened. The dinner came to an end; Mrs. Wragge (lulled by the
      narcotic influence of annotating circulars, and eating and drinking with
      an appetite sharpened by the captain&rsquo;s absence) withdrew to an arm-chair,
      and fell asleep in an attitude which would have caused her husband the
      acutest mental suffering; seven o&rsquo;clock struck; the shadows of the summer
      evening lengthened stealthily on the gray pavement and the brown
      house-walls&mdash;and still the closed door opposite remained shut; still
      the one window open showed nothing but the black blank of the room inside,
      lifeless and changeless as if that room had been a tomb.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s meek snoring deepened in tone; the evening wore on drearily;
      it was close on eight o&rsquo;clock&mdash;when an event happened at last. The
      street door opposite opened for the first time, and a woman appeared on
      the threshold.
    </p>
    <p>
      Was the woman Mrs. Lecount? No. As she came nearer, her dress showed her
      to be a servant. She had a large door-key in her hand, and was evidently
      going out to perform an errand. Roused partly by curiosity, partly by the
      impulse of the moment, which urged her impetuous nature into action after
      the passive endurance of many hours past, Magdalen snatched up her bonnet,
      and determined to follow the servant to her destination, wherever it might
      be.
    </p>
    <p>
      The woman led her to the great thoroughfare of shops close at hand, called
      Lambeth Walk. After proceeding some little distance, and looking about her
      with the hesitation of a person not well acquainted with the neighborhood,
      the servant crossed the road and entered a stationer&rsquo;s shop. Magdalen
      crossed the road after her and followed her in.
    </p>
    <p>
      The inevitable delay in entering the shop under these circumstances made
      Magdalen too late to hear what the woman asked for. The first words
      spoken, however, by the man behind the counter reached her ears, and
      informed her that the servant&rsquo;s object was to buy a railway guide.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you mean a Guide for this month or a Guide for July?&rdquo; asked the
      shopman, addressing his customer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Master didn&rsquo;t tell me which,&rdquo; answered the woman. &ldquo;All I know is, he&rsquo;s
      going into the country the day after to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The day after to-morrow is the first of July,&rdquo; said the shopman. &ldquo;The
      Guide your master wants is the Guide for the new month. It won&rsquo;t be
      published till to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Engaging to call again on the next day, the servant left the shop, and
      took the way that led back to Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen purchased the first trifle she saw on the counter, and hastily
      returned in the same direction. The discovery she had just made was of
      very serious importance to her; and she felt the necessity of acting on it
      with as little delay as possible.
    </p>
    <p>
      On entering the front room at the lodgings she found Mrs. Wragge just
      awake, lost in drowsy bewilderment, with her cap fallen off on her
      shoulders, and with one of her shoes missing altogether. Magdalen
      endeavored to persuade her that she was tired after her journey, and that
      her wisest proceeding would be to go to bed. Mrs. Wragge was perfectly
      willing to profit by this suggestion, provided she could find her shoe
      first. In looking for the shoe, she unfortunately discovered the
      circulars, put by on a side-table, and forthwith recovered her
      recollection of the earlier proceedings of the evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Give us the pencil,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, shuffling the circulars in a
      violent hurry. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t go to bed yet&mdash;I haven&rsquo;t half done marking
      down the things I want. Let&rsquo;s see; where did I leave off? <i>Try Finch&rsquo;s
      feeding-bottle for Infants.</i> No! there&rsquo;s a cross against that: the
      cross means I don&rsquo;t want it. <i>Comfort in the Field. Buckler&rsquo;s
      Indestructible Hunting-breeches.</i> Oh dear, dear! I&rsquo;ve lost the place.
      No, I haven&rsquo;t. Here it is; here&rsquo;s my mark against it. <i>Elegant Cashmere
      Robes; strictly Oriental, very grand; reduced to one pound
      nineteen-and-sixpence. Be in time. Only three left.</i> Only three! Oh, do
      lend us the money, and let&rsquo;s go and get one!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not to-night,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;Suppose you go to bed now, and finish the
      circulars tomorrow? I will put them by the bedside for you, and you can go
      on with them as soon as you wake the first thing in the morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This suggestion met with Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s immediate approval. Magdalen took
      her into the next room and put her to bed like a child&mdash;with her toys
      by her side. The room was so narrow, and the bed was so small; and Mrs.
      Wragge, arrayed in the white apparel proper for the occasion, with her
      moon-face framed round by a spacious halo of night-cap, looked so hugely
      and disproportionately large, that Magdalen, anxious as she was, could not
      repress a smile on taking leave of her traveling companion for the night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, cheerfully; &ldquo;we&rsquo;ll have that Cashmere Robe
      to-morrow. Come here! I want to whisper something to you. Just you look at
      me&mdash;I&rsquo;m going to sleep crooked, and the captain&rsquo;s not here to bawl at
      me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The front room at the lodgings contained a sofa-bedstead which the
      landlady arranged betimes for the night. This done, and the candles
      brought in, Magdalen was left alone to shape the future course as her own
      thoughts counseled her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The questions and answers which had passed in her presence that evening at
      the stationer&rsquo;s shop led plainly to the conclusion that one day more would
      bring Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s present term of residence in Vauxhall Walk to an
      end. Her first cautious resolution to pass many days together in
      unsuspected observation of the house opposite before she ventured herself
      inside was entirely frustrated by the turn events had taken. She was
      placed in the dilemma of running all risks headlong on the next day, or of
      pausing for a future opportunity which might never occur. There was no
      middle course open to her. Until she had seen Noel Vanstone with her own
      eyes, and had discovered the worst there was to fear from Mrs. Lecount&mdash;until
      she had achieved this double object, with the needful precaution of
      keeping her own identity carefully in the dark&mdash;not a step could she
      advance toward the accomplishment of the purpose which had brought her to
      London.
    </p>
    <p>
      One after another the minutes of the night passed away; one after another
      the thronging thoughts followed each other over her mind&mdash;and still
      she reached no conclusion; still she faltered and doubted, with a
      hesitation new to her in her experience of herself. At last she crossed
      the room impatiently to seek the trivial relief of unlocking her trunk and
      taking from it the few things that she wanted for the night. Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s suspicions had not misled him. There, hidden between two dresses,
      were the articles of costume which he had missed from her box at
      Birmingham. She turned them over one by one, to satisfy herself that
      nothing she wanted had been forgotten, and returned once more to her post
      of observation by the window.
    </p>
    <p>
      The house opposite was dark down to the parlor. There the blind,
      previously raised, was now drawn over the window: the light burning behind
      it showed her for the first time that the room was inhabited. Her eyes
      brightened, and her color rose as she looked at it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There he is!&rdquo; she said to herself, in a low, angry whisper. &ldquo;There he
      lives on our money, in the house that his father&rsquo;s warning has closed
      against me!&rdquo; She dropped the blind which she had raised to look out,
      returned to her trunk, and took from it the gray wig which was part of her
      dramatic costume in the character of the North-country lady. The wig had
      been crumpled in packing; she put it on and went to the toilet-table to
      comb it out. &ldquo;His father has warned him against Magdalen Vanstone,&rdquo; she
      said, repeating the passage in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s letter, and laughing
      bitterly, as she looked at herself in the glass. &ldquo;I wonder whether his
      father has warned him against Miss Garth? To-morrow is sooner than I
      bargained for. No matter: to-morrow shall show.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE early morning, when Magdalen rose and looked out, was cloudy and
      overcast. But as time advanced to the breakfast hour the threatening of
      rain passed away; and she was free to provide, without hinderance from the
      weather, for the first necessity of the day&mdash;the necessity of
      securing the absence of her traveling companion from the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge was dressed, armed at all points with her collection of
      circulars, and eager to be away by ten o&rsquo;clock. At an earlier hour
      Magdalen had provided for her being properly taken care of by the
      landlady&rsquo;s eldest daughter&mdash;a quiet, well-conducted girl, whose
      interest in the shopping expedition was readily secured by a little
      present of money for the purchase, on her own account, of a parasol and a
      muslin dress. Shortly after ten o&rsquo;clock Magdalen dismissed Mrs. Wragge and
      her attendant in a cab. She then joined the landlady&mdash;who was
      occupied in setting the rooms in order upstairs&mdash;with the object of
      ascertaining, by a little well-timed gossip, what the daily habits might
      be of the inmates of the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      She discovered that there were no other lodgers but Mrs. Wragge and
      herself. The landlady&rsquo;s husband was away all day, employed at a railway
      station. Her second daughter was charged with the care of the kitchen in
      the elder sister&rsquo;s absence. The younger children were at school, and would
      be back at one o&rsquo;clock to dinner. The landlady herself &ldquo;got up fine linen
      for ladies,&rdquo; and expected to be occupied over her work all that morning in
      a little room built out at the back of the premises. Thus there was every
      facility for Magdalen&rsquo;s leaving the house in disguise, and leaving it
      unobserved, provided she went out before the children came back to dinner
      at one o&rsquo;clock.
    </p>
    <p>
      By eleven o&rsquo;clock the apartments were set in order, and the landlady had
      retired to pursue her own employments. Magdalen softly locked the door of
      her room, drew the blind over the window, and entered at once on her
      preparations for the perilous experiment of the day.
    </p>
    <p>
      The same quick perception of dangers to be avoided and difficulties to be
      overcome which had warned her to leave the extravagant part of her
      character costume in the box at Birmingham now kept her mind fully alive
      to the vast difference between a disguise worn by gas-light for the
      amusement of an audience and a disguise assumed by daylight to deceive the
      searching eyes of two strangers. The first article of dress which she put
      on was an old gown of her own (made of the material called &ldquo;alpaca&rdquo;), of a
      dark-brown color, with a neat pattern of little star-shaped spots in
      white. A double flounce running round the bottom of this dress was the
      only milliner&rsquo;s ornament which it presented&mdash;an ornament not at all
      out of character with the costume appropriated to an elderly lady. The
      disguise of her head and face was the next object of her attention. She
      fitted and arranged the gray wig with the dexterity which constant
      practice had given her; fixed the false eyebrows (made rather large, and
      of hair darker than the wig) carefully in their position with the gum she
      had with her for the purpose, and stained her face with the customary
      stage materials, so as to change the transparent fairness of her
      complexion to the dull, faintly opaque color of a woman in ill health. The
      lines and markings of age followed next; and here the first obstacles
      presented themselves. The art which succeeded by gas-light failed by day:
      the difficulty of hiding the plainly artificial nature of the marks was
      almost insuperable. She turned to her trunk; took from it two veils; and
      putting on her old-fashioned bonnet, tried the effect of them in
      succession. One of the veils (of black lace) was too thick to be worn over
      the face at that summer season without exciting remark. The other, of
      plain net, allowed her features to be seen through it, just indistinctly
      enough to permit the safe introduction of certain lines (many fewer than
      she was accustomed to use in performing the character) on the forehead and
      at the sides of the mouth. But the obstacle thus set aside only opened the
      way to a new difficulty&mdash;the difficulty of keeping her veil down
      while she was speaking to other persons, without any obvious reason for
      doing so. An instant&rsquo;s consideration, and a chance look at her little
      china palette of stage colors, suggested to her ready invention the
      production of a visible excuse for wearing her veil. She deliberately
      disfigured herself by artificially reddening the insides of her eyelids so
      as to produce an appearance of inflammation which no human creature but a
      doctor&mdash;and that doctor at close quarters&mdash;could have detected
      as false. She sprang to her feet and looked triumphantly at the hideous
      transformation of herself reflected in the glass. Who could think it
      strange now if she wore her veil down, and if she begged Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      permission to sit with her back to the light?
    </p>
    <p>
      Her last proceeding was to put on the quiet gray cloak which she had
      brought from Birmingham, and which had been padded inside by Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s own experienced hands, so as to hide the youthful grace and
      beauty of her back and shoulders. Her costume being now complete, she
      practiced the walk which had been originally taught her as appropriate to
      the character&mdash;a walk with a slight limp&mdash;and, returning to the
      glass after a minute&rsquo;s trial, exercised herself next in the disguise of
      her voice and manner. This was the only part of the character in which it
      had been possible, with her physical peculiarities, to produce an
      imitation of Miss Garth; and here the resemblance was perfect. The harsh
      voice, the blunt manner, the habit of accompanying certain phrases by an
      emphatic nod of the head, the Northumbrian <i>burr</i> expressing itself
      in every word which contained the letter &ldquo;r&rdquo;&mdash;all these personal
      peculiarities of the old North-country governess were reproduced to the
      life. The personal transformation thus completed was literally what
      Captain Wragge had described it to be&mdash;a triumph in the art of
      self-disguise. Excepting the one case of seeing her face close, with a
      strong light on it, nobody who now looked at Magdalen could have suspected
      for an instant that she was other than an ailing, ill-made, unattractive
      woman of fifty years old at least.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before unlocking the door, she looked about her carefully, to make sure
      that none of her stage materials were exposed to view in case the landlady
      entered the room in her absence. The only forgotten object belonging to
      her that she discovered was a little packet of Norah&rsquo;s letters which she
      had been reading overnight, and which had been accidentally pushed under
      the looking-glass while she was engaged in dressing herself. As she took
      up the letters to put them away, the thought struck her for the first
      time, &ldquo;Would Norah know me now if we met each other in the street?&rdquo; She
      looked in the glass, and smiled sadly. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;not even Norah.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She unlocked the door, after first looking at her watch. It was close on
      twelve o&rsquo;clock. There was barely an hour left to try her desperate
      experiment, and to return to the lodging before the landlady&rsquo;s children
      came back from school.
    </p>
    <p>
      An instant&rsquo;s listening on the landing assured her that all was quiet in
      the passage below. She noiselessly descended the stairs and gained the
      street without having met any living creature on her way out of the house.
      In another minute she had crossed the road, and had knocked at Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s door.
    </p>
    <p>
      The door was opened by the same woman-servant whom she had followed on the
      previous evening to the stationer&rsquo;s shop. With a momentary tremor, which
      recalled the memorable first night of her appearance in public, Magdalen
      inquired (in Miss Garth&rsquo;s voice, and with Miss Garth&rsquo;s manner) for Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Lecount has gone out, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; said the servant.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Mr. Vanstone at home?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, her resolution asserting itself
      at once against the first obstacle that opposed it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My master is not up yet, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Another check! A weaker nature would have accepted the warning. Magdalen&rsquo;s
      nature rose in revolt against it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What time will Mrs. Lecount be back?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;About one o&rsquo;clock, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Say, if you please, that I will call again as soon after one o&rsquo;clock as
      possible. I particularly wish to see Mrs. Lecount. My name is Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She turned and left the house. Going back to her own room was out of the
      question. The servant (as Magdalen knew by not hearing the door close) was
      looking after her; and, moreover, she would expose herself, if she went
      indoors, to the risk of going out again exactly at the time when the
      landlady&rsquo;s children were sure to be about the house. She turned
      mechanically to the right, walked on until she recalled Vauxhall Bridge,
      and waited there, looking out over the river.
    </p>
    <p>
      The interval of unemployed time now before her was nearly an hour. How
      should she occupy it?
    </p>
    <p>
      As she asked herself the question, the thought which had struck her when
      she put away the packet of Norah&rsquo;s letters rose in her mind once more. A
      sudden impulse to test the miserable completeness of her disguise mixed
      with the higher and purer feeling at her heart, and strengthened her
      natural longing to see her sister&rsquo;s face again, though she dare not
      discover herself and speak. Norah&rsquo;s later letters had described, in the
      fullest details, her life as a governess&mdash;her hours for teaching, her
      hours of leisure, her hours for walking out with her pupils. There was
      just time, if she could find a vehicle at once, for Magdalen to drive to
      the house of Norah&rsquo;s employer, with the chance of getting there a few
      minutes before the hour when her sister would be going out. &ldquo;One look at
      her will tell me more than a hundred letters!&rdquo; With that thought in her
      heart, with the one object of following Norah on her daily walk, under
      protection of the disguise, Magdalen hastened over the bridge, and made
      for the northern bank of the river.
    </p>
    <p>
      So, at the turning-point of her life&mdash;so, in the interval before she
      took the irrevocable step, and passed the threshold of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      door&mdash;the forces of Good triumphing in the strife for her over the
      forces of Evil, turned her back on the scene of her meditated deception,
      and hurried her mercifully further and further away from the fatal house.
    </p>
    <p>
      She stopped the first empty cab that passed her; told the driver to go to
      New Street, Spring Gardens; and promised to double his fare if he reached
      his destination by a given time. The man earned the money&mdash;more than
      earned it, as the event proved. Magdalen had not taken ten steps in
      advance along New Street, walking toward St. James&rsquo;s Park, before the door
      of a house beyond her opened, and a lady in mourning came out, accompanied
      by two little girls. The lady also took the direction of the Park, without
      turning her head toward Magdalen as she descended the house step. It
      mattered little; Magdalen&rsquo;s heart looked through her eyes, and told her
      that she saw Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      She followed them into St. James&rsquo;s Park, and thence (along the Mall) into
      the Green Park, venturing closer and closer as they reached the grass and
      ascended the rising ground in the direction of Hyde Park Corner. Her eager
      eyes devoured every detail in Norah&rsquo;s dress, and detected the slightest
      change that had taken place in her figure and her bearing. She had become
      thinner since the autumn&mdash;her head drooped a little; she walked
      wearily. Her mourning dress, worn with the modest grace and neatness which
      no misfortune could take from her, was suited to her altered station; her
      black gown was made of stuff; her black shawl and bonnet were of the
      plainest and cheapest kind. The two little girls, walking on either side
      of her, were dressed in silk. Magdalen instinctively hated them.
    </p>
    <p>
      She made a wide circuit on the grass, so as to turn gradually and meet her
      sister without exciting suspicion that the meeting was contrived. Her
      heart beat fast; a burning heat glowed in her as she thought of her false
      hair, her false color, her false dress, and saw the dear familiar face
      coming nearer and nearer. They passed each other close. Norah&rsquo;s dark
      gentle eyes looked up, with a deeper light in them, with a sadder beauty
      than of old&mdash;rested, all unconscious of the truth, on her sister&rsquo;s
      face&mdash;and looked away from it again as from the face of a stranger.
      That glance of an instant struck Magdalen to the heart. She stood rooted
      to the ground after Norah had passed by. A horror of the vile disguise
      that concealed her; a yearning to burst its trammels and hide her shameful
      painted face on Norah&rsquo;s bosom, took possession of her, body and soul. She
      turned and looked back.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah and the two children had reached the higher ground, and were close
      to one of the gates in the iron railing which fenced the Park from the
      street. Drawn by an irresistible fascination, Magdalen followed them
      again, gained on them as they reached the gate, and heard the voices of
      the two children raised in angry dispute which way they wanted to walk
      next. She saw Norah take them through the gate, and then stoop and speak
      to them, while waiting for an opportunity to cross the road. They only
      grew the louder and the angrier for what she said. The youngest&mdash;a
      girl of eight or nine years old&mdash;flew into a child&rsquo;s vehement
      passion, cried, screamed, and even kicked at the governess. The people in
      the street stopped and laughed; some of them jestingly advised a little
      wholesome correction; one woman asked Norah if she was the child&rsquo;s mother;
      another pitied her audibly for being the child&rsquo;s governess. Before
      Magdalen could push her way through the crowd&mdash;before her
      all-mastering anxiety to help her sister had blinded her to every other
      consideration, and had brought her, self-betrayed, to Norah&rsquo;s side&mdash;an
      open carriage passed the pavement slowly, hindered in its progress by the
      press of vehicles before it. An old lady seated inside heard the child&rsquo;s
      cries, recognized Norah, and called to her immediately. The footman parted
      the crowd, and the children were put into the carriage. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s lucky I
      happened to pass this way,&rdquo; said the old lady, beckoning contemptuously to
      Norah to take her place on the front seat; &ldquo;you never could manage my
      daughter&rsquo;s children, and you never will.&rdquo; The footman put up the steps,
      the carriage drove on with the children and the governess, the crowd
      dispersed, and Magdalen was alone again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So be it!&rdquo; she thought, bitterly. &ldquo;I should only have distressed her. We
      should only have had the misery of parting to suffer again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She mechanically retraced her steps; she returned, as in a dream, to the
      open space of the Park. Arming itself treacherously with the strength of
      her love for her sister, with the vehemence of the indignation that she
      felt for her sister&rsquo;s sake, the terrible temptation of her life fastened
      its hold on her more firmly than ever. Through all the paint and
      disfigurement of the disguise, the fierce despair of that strong and
      passionate nature lowered, haggard and horrible. Norah made an object of
      public curiosity and amusement; Norah reprimanded in the open street;
      Norah, the hired victim of an old woman&rsquo;s insolence and a child&rsquo;s
      ill-temper, and the same man to thank for it who had sent Frank to China!&mdash;and
      that man&rsquo;s son to thank after him! The thought of her sister, which had
      turned her from the scene of her meditated deception, which had made the
      consciousness of her own disguise hateful to her, was now the thought
      which sanctioned that means, or any means, to compass her end; the thought
      which set wings to her feet, and hurried her back nearer and nearer to the
      fatal house.
    </p>
    <p>
      She left the Park again, and found herself in the streets without knowing
      where. Once more she hailed the first cab that passed her, and told the
      man to drive to Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      The change from walking to riding quieted her. She felt her attention
      returning to herself and her dress. The necessity of making sure that no
      accident had happened to her disguise in the interval since she had left
      her own room impressed itself immediately on her mind. She stopped the
      driver at the first pastry-cook&rsquo;s shop which he passed, and there obtained
      the means of consulting a looking-glass before she ventured back to
      Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her gray head-dress was disordered, and the old-fashioned bonnet was a
      little on one side. Nothing else had suffered. She set right the few
      defects in her costume, and returned to the cab. It was half-past one when
      she approached the house and knocked, for the second time, at Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s door. The woman-servant opened it as before.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has Mrs. Lecount come back?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am. Step this way, if you please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The servant preceded Magdalen along an empty passage, and, leading her
      past an uncarpeted staircase, opened the door of a room at the back of the
      house. The room was lighted by one window looking out on a yard; the walls
      were bare; the boarded floor was uncovered. Two bedroom chairs stood
      against the wall, and a kitchen-table was placed under the window. On the
      table stood a glass tank filled with water, and ornamented in the middle
      by a miniature pyramid of rock-work interlaced with weeds. Snails clung to
      the sides of the tank; tadpoles and tiny fish swam swiftly in the green
      water, slippery efts and slimy frogs twined their noiseless way in and out
      of the weedy rock-work; and on top of the pyramid there sat solitary, cold
      as the stone, brown as the stone, motionless as the stone, a little
      bright-eyed toad. The art of keeping fish and reptiles as domestic pets
      had not at that time been popularized in England; and Magdalen, on
      entering the room, started back, in irrepressible astonishment and
      disgust, from the first specimen of an Aquarium that she had ever seen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be alarmed,&rdquo; said a woman&rsquo;s voice behind her. &ldquo;My pets hurt
      nobody.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen turned, and confronted Mrs. Lecount. She had expected&mdash;founding
      her anticipations on the letter which the housekeeper had written to her&mdash;to
      see a hard, wily, ill-favored, insolent old woman. She found herself in
      the presence of a lady of mild, ingratiating manners, whose dress was the
      perfection of neatness, taste, and matronly simplicity, whose personal
      appearance was little less than a triumph of physical resistance to the
      deteriorating influence of time. If Mrs. Lecount had struck some fifteen
      or sixteen years off her real age, and had asserted herself to be
      eight-and-thirty, there would not have been one man in a thousand, or one
      woman in a hundred, who would have hesitated to believe her. Her dark hair
      was just turning to gray, and no more. It was plainly parted under a
      spotless lace cap, sparingly ornamented with mourning ribbons. Not a
      wrinkle appeared on her smooth white forehead, or her plump white cheeks.
      Her double chin was dimpled, and her teeth were marvels of whiteness and
      regularity. Her lips might have been critically considered as too thin, if
      they had not been accustomed to make the best of their defects by means of
      a pleading and persuasive smile. Her large black eyes might have looked
      fierce if they had been set in the face of another woman, they were mild
      and melting in the face of Mrs. Lecount; they were tenderly interested in
      everything she looked at&mdash;in Magdalen, in the toad on the rock-work,
      in the back-yard view from the window; in her own plump fair hands,&mdash;which
      she rubbed softly one over the other while she spoke; in her own pretty
      cambric chemisette, which she had a habit of looking at complacently while
      she listened to others. The elegant black gown in which she mourned the
      memory of Michael Vanstone was not a mere dress&mdash;it was a well-made
      compliment paid to Death. Her innocent white muslin apron was a little
      domestic poem in itself. Her jet earrings were so modest in their
      pretensions that a Quaker might have looked at them and committed no sin.
      The comely plumpness of her face was matched by the comely plumpness of
      her figure; it glided smoothly over the ground; it flowed in sedate
      undulations when she walked. There are not many men who could have
      observed Mrs. Lecount entirely from the Platonic point of view&mdash;lads
      in their teens would have found her irresistible&mdash;women only could
      have hardened their hearts against her, and mercilessly forced their way
      inward through that fair and smiling surface. Magdalen&rsquo;s first glance at
      this Venus of the autumn period of female life more than satisfied her
      that she had done well to feel her ground in disguise before she ventured
      on matching herself against Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have I the pleasure of addressing the lady who called this morning?&rdquo;
       inquired the housekeeper. &ldquo;Am I speaking to Miss Garth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Something in the expression of her eyes, as she asked that question,
      warned Magdalen to turn her face further inward from the window than she
      had turned it yet. The bare doubt whether the housekeeper might not have
      seen her already under too strong a light shook her self-possession for
      the moment. She gave herself time to recover it, and merely answered by a
      bow.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Accept my excuses, ma&rsquo;am, for the place in which I am compelled to
      receive you,&rdquo; proceeded Mrs. Lecount in fluent English, spoken with a
      foreign accent. &ldquo;Mr. Vanstone is only here for a temporary purpose. We
      leave for the sea-side to-morrow afternoon, and it has not been thought
      worth while to set the house in proper order. Will you take a seat, and
      oblige me by mentioning the object of your visit?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She glided imperceptibly a step or two nearer to Magdalen, and placed a
      chair for her exactly opposite the light from the window. &ldquo;Pray sit down,&rdquo;
       said Mrs. Lecount, looking with the tenderest interest at the visitor&rsquo;s
      inflamed eyes through the visitor&rsquo;s net veil.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am suffering, as you see, from a complaint in the eyes,&rdquo; replied
      Magdalen, steadily keeping her profile toward the window, and carefully
      pitching her voice to the tone of Miss Garth&rsquo;s. &ldquo;I must beg your
      permission to wear my veil down, and to sit away from the light.&rdquo; She said
      those words, feeling mistress of herself again. With perfect composure she
      drew the chair back into the corner of the room beyond the window and
      seated herself, keeping the shadow of her bonnet well over her face. Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s persuasive lips murmured a polite expression of sympathy; Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s amiable black eyes looked more interested in the strange lady
      than ever. She placed a chair for herself exactly on a line with
      Magdalen&rsquo;s, and sat so close to the wall as to force her visitor either to
      turn her head a little further round toward the window, or to fail in
      politeness by not looking at the person whom she addressed. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said
      Mrs. Lecount, with a confidential little cough. &ldquo;And to what
      circumstances am I indebted for the honor of this visit?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I inquire, first, if my name happens to be familiar to you?&rdquo; said
      Magdalen, turning toward her as a matter of necessity, but coolly holding
      up her handkerchief at the same time between her face and the light.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; answered Mrs. Lecount, with another little cough, rather harsher
      than the first. &ldquo;The name of Miss Garth is not familiar to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In that case,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen, &ldquo;I shall best explain the object that
      causes me to intrude on you by mentioning who I am. I lived for many years
      as governess in the family of the late Mr. Andrew Vanstone, of
      Combe-Raven, and I come here in the interest of his orphan daughters.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s hands, which had been smoothly sliding one over the other
      up to this time, suddenly stopped; and Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s lips,
      self-forgetfully shutting up, owned they were too thin at the very outset
      of the interview.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am surprised you can bear the light out-of-doors without a green
      shade,&rdquo; she quietly remarked; leaving the false Miss Garth&rsquo;s announcement
      of herself as completely unnoticed as it she had not spoken at all.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I find a shade over my eyes keeps them too hot at this time of the year,&rdquo;
       rejoined Magdalen, steadily matching the housekeeper&rsquo;s composure. &ldquo;May I
      ask whether you heard what I said just now on the subject of my errand in
      this house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I inquire on my side, ma&rsquo;am, in what way that errand can possibly
      concern <i>me?</i>&rdquo; retorted Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I come to you because Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      intentions toward the two young ladies were made known to them in the form
      of a letter from yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That plain answer had its effect. It warned Mrs. Lecount that the strange
      lady was better informed than she had at first suspected, and that it
      might hardly be wise, under the circumstances, to dismiss her unheard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray pardon me,&rdquo; said the housekeeper, &ldquo;I scarcely understood before; I
      perfectly understand now. You are mistaken, ma&rsquo;am, in supposing that I am
      of any importance, or that I exercise any influence in this painful
      matter. I am the mouth-piece of Mr. Noel Vanstone; the pen he holds, if
      you will excuse the expression&mdash;nothing more. He is an invalid, and
      like other invalids, he has his bad days and his good. It was his bad day
      when that answer was written to the young person&mdash;shall I call her
      Miss Vanstone? I will, with pleasure, poor girl; for who am I to make
      distinctions, and what is it to me whether her parents were married or
      not? As I was saying, it was one of Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s bad days when that
      answer was sent, and therefore I had to write it; simply as his secretary,
      for want of a better. If you wish to speak on the subject of these young
      ladies&mdash;shall I call them young ladies, as you did just now? no, poor
      things, I will call them the Misses Vanstone.&mdash;If you wish to speak
      on the subject of these Misses Vanstone, I will mention your name, and
      your object in favoring me with this call, to Mr. Noel Vanstone. He is
      alone in the parlor, and this is one of his good days. I have the
      influence of an old servant over him, and I will use that influence with
      pleasure in your behalf. Shall I go at once?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount, rising,
      with the friendliest anxiety to make herself useful.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please,&rdquo; replied Magdalen; &ldquo;and if I am not taking any undue
      advantage of your kindness.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the contrary,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;you are laying me under an
      obligation&mdash;you are permitting me, in my very limited way, to assist
      the performance of a benevolent action.&rdquo; She bowed, smiled, and glided out
      of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Left by herself, Magdalen allowed the anger which she had suppressed in
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s presence to break free from her. For want of a nobler
      object to attack, it took the direction of the toad. The sight of the
      hideous little reptile sitting placid on his rock throne, with his bright
      eyes staring impenetrably into vacancy, irritated every nerve in her body.
      She looked at the creature with a shrinking intensity of hatred; she
      whispered at it maliciously through her set teeth. &ldquo;I wonder whose blood
      runs coldest,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;yours, you little monster, or Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s? I
      wonder which is the slimiest, her heart or your back? You hateful wretch,
      do you know what your mistress is? Your mistress is a devil!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The speckled skin under the toad&rsquo;s mouth mysteriously wrinkled itself,
      then slowly expanded again, as if he had swallowed the words just
      addressed to him. Magdalen started back in disgust from the first
      perceptible movement in the creature&rsquo;s body, trifling as it was, and
      returned to her chair. She had not seated herself again a moment too soon.
      The door opened noiselessly, and Mrs. Lecount appeared once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Vanstone will see you,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;if you will kindly wait a few
      minutes. He will ring the parlor bell when his present occupation is at an
      end, and he is ready to receive you. Be careful, ma&rsquo;am, not to depress his
      spirits, nor to agitate him in any way. His heart has been a cause of
      serious anxiety to those about him, from his earliest years. There is no
      positive disease; there is only a chronic feebleness&mdash;a fatty
      degeneration&mdash;a want of vital power in the organ itself. His heart
      will go on well enough if you don&rsquo;t give his heart too much to do&mdash;that
      is the advice of all the medical men who have seen him. You will not
      forget it, and you will keep a guard over your conversation accordingly.
      Talking of medical men, have you ever tried the Golden Ointment for that
      sad affliction in your eyes? It has been described to me as an excellent
      remedy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It has not succeeded in my case,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, sharply. &ldquo;Before I
      see Mr. Noel Vanstone,&rdquo; she continued, &ldquo;may I inquire&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; interposed Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Does your question refer in
      any way to those two poor girls?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It refers to the Misses Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then I can&rsquo;t enter into it. Excuse me, I really can&rsquo;t discuss these poor
      girls (I am so glad to hear you call them the Misses Vanstone!) except in
      my master&rsquo;s presence, and by my master&rsquo;s express permission. Let us talk
      of something else while we are waiting here. Will you notice my glass
      Tank? I have every reason to believe that it is a perfect novelty in
      England.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I looked at the tank while you were out of the room,&rdquo; said Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you? You take no interest in the subject, I dare say? Quite natural.
      I took no interest either until I was married. My dear husband&mdash;dead
      many years since&mdash;formed my tastes and elevated me to himself. You
      have heard of the late Professor Lecomte, the eminent Swiss naturalist? I
      am his widow. The English circle at Zurich (where I lived in my late
      master&rsquo;s service) Anglicized my name to Lecount. Your generous country
      people will have nothing foreign about them&mdash;not even a name, if they
      can help it. But I was speaking of my husband&mdash;my dear husband, who
      permitted me to assist him in his pursuits. I have had only one interest
      since his death&mdash;an interest in science. Eminent in many things, the
      professor was great at reptiles. He left me his Subjects and his Tank. I
      had no other legacy. There is the Tank. All the Subjects died but this
      quiet little fellow&mdash;this nice little toad. Are you surprised at my
      liking him? There is nothing to be surprised at. The professor lived long
      enough to elevate me above the common prejudice against the reptile
      creation. Properly understood, the reptile creation is beautiful. Properly
      dissected, the reptile creation is instructive in the last degree.&rdquo; She
      stretched out her little finger, and gently stroked the toad&rsquo;s back with
      the tip of it. &ldquo;So refreshing to the touch,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount&mdash;&ldquo;so
      nice and cool this summer weather!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The bell from the parlor rang. Mrs. Lecount rose, bent fondly over the
      Aquarium, and chirruped to the toad at parting as if it had been a bird.
      &ldquo;Mr. Vanstone is ready to receive you. Follow me, if you please, Miss
      Garth.&rdquo; With these words she opened the door, and led the way out of the
      room.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MISS GARTH, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, opening the parlor door, and
      announcing the visitor&rsquo;s appearance with the tone and manner of a
      well-bred servant.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen found herself in a long, narrow room, consisting of a back parlor
      and a front parlor, which had been thrown into one by opening the
      folding-doors between them. Seated not far from the front window, with his
      back to the light, she saw a frail, flaxen-haired, self-satisfied little
      man, clothed in a fair white dressing-gown many sizes too large for him,
      with a nosegay of violets drawn neatly through the button-hole over his
      breast. He looked from thirty to five-and-thirty years old. His complexion
      was as delicate as a young girl&rsquo;s, his eyes were of the lightest blue, his
      upper lip was adorned by a weak little white mustache, waxed and twisted
      at either end into a thin spiral curl. When any object specially attracted
      his attention he half closed his eyelids to look at it. When he smiled,
      the skin at his temples crumpled itself up into a nest of wicked little
      wrinkles. He had a plate of strawberries on his lap, with a napkin under
      them to preserve the purity of his white dressing-gown. At his right hand
      stood a large round table, covered with a collection of foreign
      curiosities, which seemed to have been brought together from the four
      quarters of the globe. Stuffed birds from Africa, porcelain monsters from
      China, silver ornaments and utensils from India and Peru, mosaic work from
      Italy, and bronzes from France, were all heaped together pell-mell with
      the coarse deal boxes and dingy leather cases which served to pack them
      for traveling. The little man apologized, with a cheerful and simpering
      conceit, for his litter of curiosities, his dressing-gown, and his
      delicate health; and, waving his hand toward a chair, placed his
      attention, with pragmatical politeness, at the visitor&rsquo;s disposal.
      Magdalen looked at him with a momentary doubt whether Mrs. Lecount had not
      deceived her. Was this the man who mercilessly followed the path on which
      his merciless father had walked before him? She could hardly believe it.
      &ldquo;Take a seat, Miss Garth,&rdquo; he repeated, observing her hesitation, and
      announcing his own name in a high, thin, fretfully-consequential voice: &ldquo;I
      am Mr. Noel Vanstone. You wished to see me&mdash;here I am!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I be permitted to retire, sir?&rdquo; inquired Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not!&rdquo; replied her master. &ldquo;Stay here, Lecount, and keep us
      company. Mrs. Lecount has my fullest confidence,&rdquo; he continued, addressing
      Magdalen. &ldquo;Whatever you say to me, ma&rsquo;am, you say to her. She is a
      domestic treasure. There is not another house in England has such a
      treasure as Mrs. Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The housekeeper listened to the praise of her domestic virtues with eyes
      immovably fixed on her elegant chemisette. But Magdalen&rsquo;s quick
      penetration had previously detected a look that passed between Mrs.
      Lecount and her master, which suggested that Noel Vanstone had been
      instructed beforehand what to say and do in his visitor&rsquo;s presence. The
      suspicion of this, and the obstacles which the room presented to arranging
      her position in it so as to keep her face from the light, warned Magdalen
      to be on her guard.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had taken her chair at first nearly midway in the room. An instant&rsquo;s
      after-reflection induced her to move her seat toward the left hand, so as
      to place herself just inside, and close against, the left post of the
      folding-door. In this position she dexterously barred the only passage by
      which Mrs. Lecount could have skirted round the large table and contrived
      to front Magdalen by taking a chair at her master&rsquo;s side. On the right
      hand of the table the empty space was well occupied by the fireplace and
      fender, by some traveling-trunks, and a large packing-case. There was no
      alternative left for Mrs. Lecount but to place herself on a line with
      Magdalen against the opposite post of the folding-door, or to push rudely
      past the visitor with the obvious intention of getting in front of her.
      With an expressive little cough, and with one steady look at her master,
      the housekeeper conceded the point, and took her seat against the
      right-hand door-post. &ldquo;Wait a little,&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount; &ldquo;my turn
      next!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mind what you are about, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, as Magdalen
      accidentally approached the table in moving her chair. &ldquo;Mind the sleeve of
      your cloak! Excuse me, you nearly knocked down that silver candlestick.
      Pray don&rsquo;t suppose it&rsquo;s a common candlestick. It&rsquo;s nothing of the sort&mdash;it&rsquo;s
      a Peruvian candlestick. There are only three of that pattern in the world.
      One is in the possession of the President of Peru; one is locked up in the
      Vatican; and one is on My table. It cost ten pounds; it&rsquo;s worth fifty. One
      of my father&rsquo;s bargains, ma&rsquo;am. All these things are my father&rsquo;s bargains.
      There is not another house in England which has such curiosities as these.
      Sit down, Lecount; I beg you will make yourself comfortable. Mrs. Lecount
      is like the curiosities, Miss Garth&mdash;she is one of my father&rsquo;s
      bargains. You are one of my father&rsquo;s bargains, are you not, Lecount? My
      father was a remarkable man, ma&rsquo;am. You will be reminded of him here at
      every turn. I have got his dressing-gown on at this moment. No such linen
      as this is made now&mdash;you can&rsquo;t get it for love or money. Would you
      like to feel the texture? Perhaps you&rsquo;re no judge of texture? Perhaps you
      would prefer talking to me about these two pupils of yours? They are two,
      are they not? Are they fine girls? Plump, fresh, full-blown English
      beauties?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, sir,&rdquo; interposed Mrs. Lecount, sorrowfully. &ldquo;I must really beg
      permission to retire if you speak of the poor things in that way. I can&rsquo;t
      sit by, sir, and hear them turned into ridicule. Consider their position;
      consider Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You good creature!&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, surveying the housekeeper through
      his half-closed eyelids. &ldquo;You excellent Lecount! I assure you, ma&rsquo;am, Mrs.
      Lecount is a worthy creature. You will observe that she pities the two
      girls. I don&rsquo;t go so far as that myself, but I can make allowances for
      them. I am a large-minded man. I can make allowances for them and for
      you.&rdquo; He smiled with the most cordial politeness, and helped himself to a
      strawberry from the dish on his lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shock Miss Garth; indeed, sir, without meaning it, you shock Miss
      Garth,&rdquo; remonstrated Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;She is not accustomed to you as I am.
      Consider Miss Garth, sir. As a favor to <i>me</i>, consider Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Thus far Magdalen had resolutely kept silence. The burning anger, which
      would have betrayed her in an instant if she had let it flash its way to
      the surface, throbbed fast and fiercely at her heart, and warned her,
      while Noel Vanstone was speaking, to close her lips. She would have
      allowed him to talk on uninterruptedly for some minutes more if Mrs.
      Lecount had not interfered for the second time. The refined insolence of
      the housekeeper&rsquo;s pity was a woman&rsquo;s insolence; and it stung her into
      instantly controlling herself. She had never more admirably imitated Miss
      Garth&rsquo;s voice and manner than when she spoke her next words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are very good,&rdquo; she said to Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I make no claim to be
      treated with any extraordinary consideration. I am a governess, and I
      don&rsquo;t expect it. I have only one favor to ask. I beg Mr. Noel Vanstone,
      for his own sake, to hear what I have to say to him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You understand, sir?&rdquo; observed Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;It appears that Miss Garth
      has some serious warning to give you. She says you are to hear her, for
      your own sake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s fair complexion suddenly turned white. He put away the
      plate of strawberries among his father&rsquo;s bargains. His hand shook and his
      little figure twisted itself uneasily in the chair. Magdalen observed him
      attentively. &ldquo;One discovery already,&rdquo; she thought; &ldquo;he is a coward!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean, ma&rsquo;am?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone, with visible trepidation
      of look and manner. &ldquo;What do you mean by telling me I must listen to you
      for my own sake? If you come her to intimidate me, you come to the wrong
      man. My strength of character was universally noticed in our circle at
      Zurich&mdash;wasn&rsquo;t it, Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Universally, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;But let us hear Miss Garth.
      Perhaps I have misinterpreted her meaning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the contrary,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, &ldquo;you have exactly expressed my
      meaning. My object in coming here is to warn Mr. Noel Vanstone against the
      course which he is now taking.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t!&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Oh, if you want to help these poor girls,
      don&rsquo;t talk in that way! Soften his resolution, ma&rsquo;am, by entreaties; don&rsquo;t
      strengthen it by threats!&rdquo; She a little overstrained the tone of humility
      in which she spoke those words&mdash;a little overacted the look of
      apprehension which accompanied them. If Magdalen had not seen plainly
      enough already that it was Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s habitual practice to decide
      everything for her master in the first instance, and then to persuade him
      that he was not acting under his housekeeper&rsquo;s resolution but under his
      own, she would have seen it now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You hear what Lecount has just said?&rdquo; remarked Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;You hear
      the unsolicited testimony of a person who has known me from childhood?
      Take care, Miss Garth&mdash;take care!&rdquo; He complacently arranged the tails
      of his white dressing-gown over his knees and took the plate of
      strawberries back on his lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no wish to offend you,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I am only anxious to open
      your eyes to the truth. You are not acquainted with the characters of the
      two sisters whose fortunes have fallen into your possession. I have known
      them from childhood; and I come to give you the benefit of my experience
      in their interests and in yours. You have nothing to dread from the elder
      of the two; she patiently accepts the hard lot which you, and your father
      before you, have forced on her. The younger sister&rsquo;s conduct is the very
      opposite of this. She has already declined to submit to your father&rsquo;s
      decision, and she now refuses to be silenced by Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s letter.
      Take my word for it, she is capable of giving you serious trouble if you
      persist in making an enemy of her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone changed color once more, and began to fidget again in his
      chair. &ldquo;Serious trouble,&rdquo; he repeated, with a blank look. &ldquo;If you mean
      writing letters, ma&rsquo;am, she has given trouble enough already. She has
      written once to me, and twice to my father. One of the letters to my
      father was a threatening letter&mdash;wasn&rsquo;t it, Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She expressed her feelings, poor child,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I thought it
      hard to send her back her letter, but your dear father knew best. What I
      said at the time was, Why not let her express her feelings? What are a few
      threatening words, after all? In her position, poor creature, they are
      words, and nothing more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I advise you not to be too sure of that,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I know her
      better than you do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She paused at those words&mdash;paused in a momentary terror. The sting of
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s pity had nearly irritated her into forgetting her assumed
      character, and speaking in her own voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have referred to the letters written by my pupil,&rdquo; she resumed,
      addressing Noel Vanstone as soon as she felt sure of herself again. &ldquo;We
      will say nothing about what she has written to your father; we will only
      speak of what she has written to you. Is there anything unbecoming in her
      letter, anything said in it that is false? Is it not true that these two
      sisters have been cruelly deprived of the provision which their father
      made for them? His will to this day speaks for him and for them; and it
      only speaks to no purpose, because he was not aware that his marriage
      obliged him to make it again, and because he died before he could remedy
      the error. Can you deny that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone smiled, and helped himself to a strawberry. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t attempt
      to deny it,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Go on, Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it not true,&rdquo; persisted Magdalen, &ldquo;that the law which has taken the
      money from these sisters, whose father made no second will, has now given
      that very money to you, whose father made no will at all? Surely, explain
      it how you may, this is hard on those orphan girls?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very hard,&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;It strikes you in that light, too&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t
      it, Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount shook her head, and closed her handsome black eyes.
      &ldquo;Harrowing,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I can characterize it, Miss Garth, by no other
      word&mdash;harrowing. How the young person&mdash;no! how Miss Vanstone,
      the younger&mdash;discovered that my late respected master made no will I
      am at a loss to understand. Perhaps it was put in the papers? But I am
      interrupting you, Miss Garth. Do have something more to say about your
      pupil&rsquo;s letter?&rdquo; She noiselessly drew her chair forward, as she said these
      words, a few inches beyond the line of the visitor&rsquo;s chair. The attempt
      was neatly made, but it proved useless. Magdalen only kept her head more
      to the left, and the packing-case on the floor prevented Mrs. Lecount from
      advancing any further.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have only one more question to put,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;My pupil&rsquo;s letter
      addressed a proposal to Mr. Noel Vanstone. I beg him to inform me why he
      has refused to consider it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My good lady!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, arching his white eyebrows in
      satirical astonishment. &ldquo;Are you really in earnest? Do you know what the
      proposal is? Have you seen the letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am quite in earnest,&rdquo; said Magdalen, &ldquo;and I have seen the letter. It
      entreats you to remember how Mr. Andrew Vanstone&rsquo;s fortune has come into
      your hands; it informs you that one-half of that fortune, divided between
      his daughters, was what his will intended them to have; and it asks of
      your sense of justice to do for his children what he would have done for
      them himself if he had lived. In plainer words still, it asks you to give
      one-half of the money to the daughters, and it leaves you free to keep the
      other half yourself. That is the proposal. Why have you refused to
      consider it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the simplest possible reason, Miss Garth,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, in
      high good-humor. &ldquo;Allow me to remind you of a well-known proverb: A fool
      and his money are soon parted. Whatever else I may be, ma&rsquo;am, I&rsquo;m not a
      fool.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t put it in that way, sir!&rdquo; remonstrated Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Be serious&mdash;pray
      be serious!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite impossible, Lecount,&rdquo; rejoined her master. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t be serious. My
      poor father, Miss Garth, took a high moral point of view in this matter.
      Lecount, there, takes a high moral point of view&mdash;don&rsquo;t you, Lecount?
      I do nothing of the sort. I have lived too long in the Continental
      atmosphere to trouble myself about moral points of view. My course in this
      business is as plain as two and two make four. I have got the money, and I
      should be a born idiot if I parted with it. There is my point of view!
      Simple enough, isn&rsquo;t it? I don&rsquo;t stand on my dignity; I don&rsquo;t meet you
      with the law, which is all on my side; I don&rsquo;t blame your coming here, as
      a total stranger, to try and alter my resolution; I don&rsquo;t blame the two
      girls for wanting to dip their fingers into my purse. All I say is, I am
      not fool enough to open it. <i>Pas si bete</i>, as we used to say in the
      English circle at Zurich. You understand French, Miss Garth? <i>Pas si
      bete!</i>&rdquo; He set aside his plate of strawberries once more, and daintily
      dried his fingers on his fine white napkin.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen kept her temper. If she could have struck him dead by lifting her
      hand at that moment, it is probable she would have lifted it. But she kept
      her temper.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Am I to understand,&rdquo; she asked, &ldquo;that the last words you have to say in
      this matter are the words said for you in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s letter!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Precisely so,&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have inherited your own father&rsquo;s fortune, as well as the fortune of
      Mr. Andrew Vanstone, and yet you feel no obligation to act from motives of
      justice or generosity toward these two sisters? All you think it necessary
      to say to them is, you have got the money, and you refuse to part with a
      single farthing of it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Most accurately stated! Miss Garth, you are a woman of business. Lecount,
      Miss Garth is a woman of business.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t appeal to me, sir,&rdquo; cried Mrs. Lecount, gracefully wringing her
      plump white hands. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t bear it! I must interfere! Let me suggest&mdash;oh,
      what do you call it in English?&mdash;a compromise. Dear Mr. Noel, you are
      perversely refusing to do yourself justice; you have better reasons than
      the reason you have given to Miss Garth. You follow your honored father&rsquo;s
      example; you feel it due to his memory to act in this matter as he acted
      before you. That is his reason, Miss Garth&mdash;&mdash; I implore you on
      my knees to take that as his reason. He will do what his dear father did;
      no more, no less. His dear father made a proposal, and he himself will now
      make that proposal over again. Yes, Mr. Noel, you will remember what this
      poor girl says in her letter to you. Her sister has been obliged to go out
      as a governess; and she herself, in losing her fortune, has lost the hope
      of her marriage for years and years to come. You will remember this&mdash;and
      you will give the hundred pounds to one, and the hundred pounds to the
      other, which your admirable father offered in the past time? If he does
      this, Miss Garth, will he do enough? If he gives a hundred pounds each to
      these unfortunate sisters&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He will repent the insult to the last hour of his life,&rdquo; said Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      The instant that answer passed her lips she would have given worlds to
      recall it. Mrs. Lecount had planted her sting in the right place at last.
      Those rash words of Magdalen&rsquo;s had burst from her passionately, in her own
      voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nothing but the habit of public performance saved her from making the
      serious error that she had committed more palpable still, by attempting to
      set it right. Here her past practice in the Entertainment came to her
      rescue, and urged her to go on instantly in Miss Garth&rsquo;s voice as if
      nothing had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You mean well, Mrs. Lecount,&rdquo; she continued, &ldquo;but you are doing harm
      instead of good. My pupils will accept no such compromise as you propose.
      I am sorry to have spoken violently just now; I beg you will excuse me.&rdquo;
       She looked hard for information in the housekeeper&rsquo;s face while she spoke
      those conciliatory words. Mrs. Lecount baffled the look by putting her
      handkerchief to her eyes. Had she, or had she not, noticed the momentary
      change in Magdalen&rsquo;s voice from the tones that were assumed to the tones
      that were natural? Impossible to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What more can I do!&rdquo; murmured Mrs. Lecount behind her handkerchief. &ldquo;Give
      me time to think&mdash;give me time to recover myself. May I retire, sir,
      for a moment? My nerves are shaken by this sad scene. I must have a glass
      of water, or I think I shall faint. Don&rsquo;t go yet, Miss Garth. I beg you
      will give us time to set this sad matter right, if we can&mdash;I beg you
      will remain until I come back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There were two doors of entrance to the room. One, the door into the front
      parlor, close at Magdalen&rsquo;s left hand. The other, the door into the back
      parlor, situated behind her. Mrs. Lecount politely retired&mdash;through
      the open folding-doors&mdash;by this latter means of exit, so as not to
      disturb the visitor by passing in front of her. Magdalen waited until she
      heard the door open and close again behind her, and then resolved to make
      the most of the opportunity which left her alone with Noel Vanstone. The
      utter hopelessness of rousing a generous impulse in that base nature had
      now been proved by her own experience. The last chance left was to treat
      him like the craven creature he was, and to influence him through his
      fears.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before she could speak, Noel Vanstone himself broke the silence. Cunningly
      as he strove to hide it, he was half angry, half alarmed at his
      housekeeper&rsquo;s desertion of him. He looked doubtingly at his visitor; he
      showed a nervous anxiety to conciliate her until Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s return.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray remember, ma&rsquo;am, I never denied that this case was a hard one,&rdquo; he
      began. &ldquo;You said just now you had no wish to offend me&mdash;and I&rsquo;m sure
      I don&rsquo;t want to offend you. May I offer you some strawberries? Would you
      like to look at my father&rsquo;s bargains? I assure you, ma&rsquo;am, I am naturally
      a gallant man; and I feel for both these sisters&mdash;especially the
      younger one. Touch me on the subject of the tender passion, and you touch
      me on a weak place. Nothing would please me more than to hear that Miss
      Vanstone&rsquo;s lover (I&rsquo;m sure I always call her Miss Vanstone, and so does
      Lecount)&mdash;I say, ma&rsquo;am, nothing would please me more than to hear
      that Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s lover had come back and married her. If a loan of
      money would be likely to bring him back, and if the security offered was
      good, and if my lawyer thought me justified&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop, Mr. Vanstone,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;You are entirely mistaken in your
      estimate of the person you have to deal with. You are seriously wrong in
      supposing that the marriage of the younger sister&mdash;if she could be
      married in a week&rsquo;s time&mdash;would make any difference in the
      convictions which induced her to write to your father and to you. I don&rsquo;t
      deny that she may act from a mixture of motives. I don&rsquo;t deny that she
      clings to the hope of hastening her marriage, and to the hope of rescuing
      her sister from a life of dependence. But if both those objects were
      accomplished by other means, nothing would induce her to leave you in
      possession of the inheritance which her father meant his children to have.
      I know her, Mr. Vanstone! She is a nameless, homeless, friendless wretch.
      The law which takes care of you, the law which takes care of all
      legitimate children, casts her like carrion to the winds. It is your law&mdash;not
      hers. She only knows it as the instrument of a vile oppression, an
      insufferable wrong. The sense of that wrong haunts her like a possession
      of the devil. The resolution to right that wrong burns in her like fire.
      If that miserable girl was married and rich, with millions tomorrow, do
      you think she would move an inch from her purpose? I tell you she would
      resist, to the last breath in her body, the vile injustice which has
      struck at the helpless children, through the calamity of their father&rsquo;s
      death! I tell you she would shrink from no means which a desperate woman
      can employ to force that closed hand of yours open, or die in the
      attempt!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She stopped abruptly. Once more her own indomitable earnestness had
      betrayed her. Once more the inborn nobility of that perverted nature had
      risen superior to the deception which it had stooped to practice. The
      scheme of the moment vanished from her mind&rsquo;s view; and the resolution of
      her life burst its way outward in her own words, in her own tones, pouring
      hotly and more hotly from her heart. She saw the abject manikin before her
      cowering, silent, in his chair. Had his fears left him sense enough to
      perceive the change in her voice? No: <i>his</i> face spoke the truth&mdash;his
      fears had bewildered him. This time the chance of the moment had
      befriended her. The door behind her chair had not opened again yet. &ldquo;No
      ears but his have heard me,&rdquo; she thought, with a sense of unutterable
      relief. &ldquo;I have escaped Mrs. Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had done nothing of the kind. Mrs. Lecount had never left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      After opening the door and closing it again, without going out, the
      housekeeper had noiselessly knelt down behind Magdalen&rsquo;s chair. Steadying
      herself against the post of the folding-door, she took a pair of scissors
      from her pocket, waited until Noel Vanstone (from whose view she was
      entirely hidden) had attracted Magdalen&rsquo;s attention by speaking to her,
      and then bent forward, with the scissors ready in her hand. The skirt of
      the false Miss Garth&rsquo;s gown&mdash;the brown alpaca dress, with the white
      spots on it&mdash;touched the floor, within the housekeeper&rsquo;s reach. Mrs.
      Lecount lifted the outer of the two flounces which ran round the bottom of
      the dress one over the other, softly cut away a little irregular fragment
      of stuff from the inner flounce, and neatly smoothed the outer one over it
      again, so as to hide the gap. By the time she had put the scissors back in
      her pocket, and had risen to her feet (sheltering herself behind the post
      of the folding-door), Magdalen had spoken her last words. Mrs. Lecount
      quietly repeated the ceremony of opening and shutting the back parlor
      door; and returned to her place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What has happened, sir, in my absence?&rdquo; she inquired, addressing her
      master with a look of alarm. &ldquo;You are pale; you are agitated! Oh, Miss
      Garth, have you forgotten the caution I gave you in the other room?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss Garth has forgotten everything,&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, recovering his
      lost composure on the re-appearance of Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Miss Garth has
      threatened me in the most outrageous manner. I forbid you to pity either
      of those two girls any more, Lecount&mdash;especially the younger one. She
      is the most desperate wretch I ever heard of! If she can&rsquo;t get my money by
      fair means, she threatens to have it by foul. Miss Garth has told me that
      to my face. To my face!&rdquo; he repeated, folding his arms, and looking
      mortally insulted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Compose yourself, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Pray compose yourself, and
      leave me to speak to Miss Garth. I regret to hear, ma&rsquo;am, that you have
      forgotten what I said to you in the next room. You have agitated Mr. Noel;
      you have compromised the interests you came here to plead; and you have
      only repeated what we knew before. The language you have allowed yourself
      to use in my absence is the same language which your pupil was foolish
      enough to employ when she wrote for the second time to my late master. How
      can a lady of your years and experience seriously repeat such nonsense?
      This girl boasts and threatens. She will do this; she will do that. You
      have her confidence, ma&rsquo;am. Tell me, if you please, in plain words, what
      can she do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Sharply as the taunt was pointed, it glanced off harmless. Mrs. Lecount
      had planted her sting once too often. Magdalen rose in complete possession
      of her assumed character and composedly terminated the interview. Ignorant
      as she was of what had happened behind her chair, she saw a change in Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s look and manner which warned her to run no more risks, and to
      trust herself no longer in the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not in my pupil&rsquo;s confidence,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Her own acts will answer
      your question when the time comes. I can only tell you, from my own
      knowledge of her, that she is no boaster. What she wrote to Mr. Michael
      Vanstone was what she was prepared to do&mdash;-what, I have reason to
      think, she was actually on the point of doing, when her plans were
      overthrown by his death. Mr. Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s son has only to persist in
      following his father&rsquo;s course to find, before long, that I am not mistaken
      in my pupil, and that I have not come here to intimidate him by empty
      threats. My errand is done. I leave Mr. Noel Vanstone with two
      alternatives to choose from. I leave him to share Mr. Andrew Vanstone&rsquo;s
      fortune with Mr. Andrew Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters&mdash;or to persist in his
      present refusal and face the consequences.&rdquo; She bowed, and walked to the
      door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone started to his feet, with anger and alarm struggling which
      should express itself first in his blank white face. Before he could open
      his lips, Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s plump hands descended on his shoulders, put him
      softly back in his chair, and restored the plate of strawberries to its
      former position on his lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Refresh yourself, Mr. Noel, with a few more strawberries,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and
      leave Miss Garth to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She followed Magdalen into the passage, and closed the door of the room
      after her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you residing in London, ma&rsquo;am?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;I reside in the country.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I want to write to you, where can I address my letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To the post-office, Birmingham,&rdquo; said Magdalen, mentioning the place
      which she had last left, and at which all letters were still addressed to
      her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount repeated the direction to fix it in her memory, advanced two
      steps in the passage, and quietly laid her right hand on Magdalen&rsquo;s arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A word of advice, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;one word at parting. You are a bold
      woman and a clever woman. Don&rsquo;t be too bold; don&rsquo;t be too clever. You are
      risking more than you think for.&rdquo; She suddenly raised herself on tiptoe
      and whispered the next words in Magdalen&rsquo;s ear. &ldquo;<i>I hold you in the
      hollow of my hand!</i>&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, with a fierce hissing emphasis
      on every syllable. Her left hand clinched itself stealthily as she spoke.
      It was the hand in which she had concealed the fragment of stuff from
      Magdalen&rsquo;s gown&mdash;the hand which held it fast at that moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, pushing her back.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount glided away politely to open the house door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean nothing now,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;wait a little, and time may show. One
      last question, ma&rsquo;am, before I bid you good-by. When your pupil was a
      little innocent child, did she ever amuse herself by building a house of
      cards?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen impatiently answered by a gesture in the affirmative.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you ever see her build up the house higher and higher,&rdquo; proceeded
      Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;till it was quite a pagoda of cards? Did you ever see her
      open her little child&rsquo;s eyes wide and look at it, and feel so proud of
      what she had done already that she wanted to do more? Did you ever see her
      steady her pretty little hand, and hold her innocent breath, and put one
      other card on the top, and lay the whole house, the instant afterward, a
      heap of ruins on the table? Ah, you have seen that. Give her, if you
      please, a friendly message from me. I venture to say she has built the
      house high enough already; and I recommend her to be careful before she
      puts on that other card.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She shall have your message,&rdquo; said Magdalen, with Miss Garth&rsquo;s bluntness,
      and Miss Garth&rsquo;s emphatic nod of the head. &ldquo;But I doubt her minding it.
      Her hand is rather steadier than you suppose, and I think she will put on
      the other card.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And bring the house down,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And build it up again,&rdquo; rejoined Magdalen. &ldquo;I wish you good-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, opening the door. &ldquo;One last word, Miss
      Garth. Do think of what I said in the back room! Do try the Golden
      Ointment for that sad affliction in your eyes!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As Magdalen crossed the threshold of the door she was met by the postman
      ascending the house steps with a letter picked out from the bundle in his
      hand. &ldquo;Noel Vanstone, Esquire?&rdquo; she heard the man say, interrogatively, as
      she made her way down the front garden to the street.
    </p>
    <p>
      She passed through the garden gates little thinking from what new
      difficulty and new danger her timely departure had saved her. The letter
      which the postman had just delivered into the housekeeper&rsquo;s hands was no
      other than the anonymous letter addressed to Noel Vanstone by Captain
      Wragge.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      MRS. LECOUNT returned to the parlor, with the fragment of Magdalen&rsquo;s dress
      in one hand, and with Captain Wragge&rsquo;s letter in the other.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you got rid of her?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;Have you shut the door at
      last on Miss Garth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t call her Miss Garth, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, smiling
      contemptuously. &ldquo;She is as much Miss Garth as you are. We have been
      favored by the performance of a clever masquerade; and if we had taken the
      disguise off our visitor, I think we should have found under it Miss
      Vanstone herself.&mdash;Here is a letter for you, sir, which the postman
      has just left.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She put the letter on the table within her master&rsquo;s reach. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      amazement at the discovery just communicated to him kept his whole
      attention concentrated on the housekeeper&rsquo;s face. He never so much as
      looked at the letter when she placed it before him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take my word for it, sir,&rdquo; proceeded Mrs. Lecount, composedly taking a
      chair. &ldquo;When our visitor gets home she will put her gray hair away in a
      box, and will cure that sad affliction in her eyes with warm water and a
      sponge. If she had painted the marks on her face, as well as she painted
      the inflammation in her eyes, the light would have shown me nothing, and I
      should certainly have been deceived. But I saw the marks; I saw a young
      woman&rsquo;s skin under that dirty complexion of hers; I heard in this room a
      true voice in a passion, as well as a false voice talking with an accent,
      and I don&rsquo;t believe in one morsel of that lady&rsquo;s personal appearance from
      top to toe. The girl herself, in my opinion, Mr. Noel&mdash;and a bold
      girl too.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why didn&rsquo;t you lock the door and send for the police?&rdquo; asked Mr. Noel.
      &ldquo;My father would have sent for the police. You know, as well as I do,
      Lecount, my father would have sent for the police.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;I think your father would have
      waited until he had got something more for the police to do than we have
      got for them yet. We shall see this lady again, sir. Perhaps she will come
      here next time with her own face and her own voice. I am curious to see
      what her own face is like. I am curious to know whether what I have heard
      of her voice in a passion is enough to make me recognize her voice when
      she is calm. I possess a little memorial of her visit of which she is not
      aware, and she will not escape me so easily as she thinks. If it turns out
      a useful memorial, you shall know what it is. If not, I will abstain from
      troubling you on so trifling a subject.&mdash;Allow me to remind you, sir,
      of the letter under your hand. You have not looked at it yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone opened the letter. He started as his eye fell on the first
      lines&mdash;hesitated&mdash;and then hurriedly read it through. The paper
      dropped from his hand, and he sank back in his chair. Mrs. Lecount sprang
      to her feet with the alacrity of a young woman and picked up the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What has happened, sir?&rdquo; she asked. Her face altered as she put the
      question, and her large black eyes hardened fiercely, in genuine
      astonishment and alarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Send for the police,&rdquo; exclaimed her master. &ldquo;Lecount, I insist on being
      protected. Send for the police!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I read the letter, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He feebly waved his hand. Mrs. Lecount read the letter attentively, and
      put it aside on the table, without a word, when she had done.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you nothing to say to me?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone, staring at his
      housekeeper in blank dismay. &ldquo;Lecount, I&rsquo;m to be robbed! The scoundrel who
      wrote that letter knows all about it, and won&rsquo;t tell me anything unless I
      pay him. I&rsquo;m to be robbed! Here&rsquo;s property on this table worth thousands
      of pounds&mdash;property that can never be replaced&mdash;property that
      all the crowned heads in Europe could not produce if they tried. Lock me
      in, Lecount, and send for the police!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Instead of sending for the police, Mrs. Lecount took a large green paper
      fan from the chimney-piece, and seated herself opposite her master.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are agitated, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;you are heated. Let me cool you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With her face as hard as ever&mdash;with less tenderness of look and
      manner than most women would have shown if they had been rescuing a
      half-drowned fly from a milk-jug&mdash;she silently and patiently fanned
      him for five minutes or more. No practiced eye observing the peculiar
      bluish pallor of his complexion, and the marked difficulty with which he
      drew his breath, could have failed to perceive that the great organ of
      life was in this man, what the housekeeper had stated it to be, too weak
      for the function which it was called on to perform. The heart labored over
      its work as if it had been the heart of a worn-out old man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you relieved, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Can you think a little? Can
      you exercise your better judgment?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose and put her hand over his heart with as much mechanical attention
      and as little genuine interest as if she had been feeling the plates at
      dinner to ascertain if they had been properly warmed. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she went on,
      seating herself again, and resuming the exercise of the fan; &ldquo;you are
      getting better already, Mr. Noel.&mdash;Don&rsquo;t ask me about this anonymous
      letter until you have thought for yourself, and have given your own
      opinion first.&rdquo; She went on with the fanning, and looked him hard in the
      face all the time. &ldquo;Think,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;think, sir, without troubling
      yourself to express your thoughts. Trust to my intimate sympathy with you
      to read them. Yes, Mr. Noel, this letter is a paltry attempt to frighten
      you. What does it say? It says you are the object of a conspiracy directed
      by Miss Vanstone. We know that already&mdash;the lady of the inflamed eyes
      has told us. We snap our fingers at the conspiracy. What does the letter
      say next? It says the writer has valuable information to give you if you
      will pay for it. What did you call this person yourself just now, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I called him a scoundrel,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, recovering his
      self-importance, and raising himself gradually in his chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I agree with you in that, sir, as I agree in everything else,&rdquo; proceeded
      Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;He is a scoundrel who really has this information and who
      means what he says, or he is a mouthpiece of Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s, and she has
      caused this letter to be written for the purpose of puzzling us by another
      form of disguise. Whether the letter is true, or whether the letter is
      false&mdash;am I not reading your own wiser thoughts now, Mr. Noel?&mdash;you
      know better than to put your enemies on their guard by employing the
      police in this matter too soon. I quite agree with you&mdash;no police
      just yet. You will allow this anonymous man, or anonymous woman, to
      suppose you are easily frightened; you will lay a trap for the information
      in return for the trap laid for your money; you will answer the letter,
      and see what comes of the answer; and you will only pay the expense of
      employing the police when you know the expense is necessary. I agree with
      you again&mdash;no expense, if we can help it. In every particular, Mr.
      Noel, my mind and your mind in this matter are one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It strikes you in that light, Lecount&mdash;does it?&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone.
      &ldquo;I think so myself; I certainly think so. I won&rsquo;t pay the police a
      farthing if I can possibly help it.&rdquo; He took up the letter again, and
      became fretfully perplexed over a second reading of it. &ldquo;But the man wants
      money!&rdquo; he broke out, impatiently. &ldquo;You seem to forget, Lecount, that the
      man wants money.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Money which you offer him, sir,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount; &ldquo;but&mdash;as
      your thoughts have already anticipated&mdash;money which you don&rsquo;t give
      him. No! no! you say to this man: &lsquo;Hold out your hand, sir;&rsquo; and when he
      has held it, you give him a smack for his pains, and put your own hand
      back in your pocket.&mdash;I am so glad to see you laughing, Mr. Noel! so
      glad to see you getting back your good spirits. We will answer the letter
      by advertisement, as the writer directs&mdash;advertisement is so cheap!
      Your poor hand is trembling a little&mdash;shall I hold the pen for you? I
      am not fit to do more; but I can always promise to hold the pen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Without waiting for his reply she went into the back parlor, and returned
      with pen, ink, and paper. Arranging a blotting-book on her knees, and
      looking a model of cheerful submission, she placed herself once more in
      front of her master&rsquo;s chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I write from your dictation, sir?&rdquo; she inquired. &ldquo;Or shall I make a
      little sketch, and will you correct it afterward? I will make a little
      sketch. Let me see the letter. We are to advertise in the <i>Times</i>,
      and we are to address &lsquo;An Unknown Friend.&rsquo; What shall I say, Mr. Noel?
      Stay; I will write it, and then you can see for yourself: &lsquo;An Unknown
      Friend is requested to mention (by advertisement) an address at which a
      letter can reach him. The receipt of the information which he offers will
      be acknowledged by a reward of&mdash;&rsquo; What sum of money do you wish me to
      set down, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Set down nothing,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, with a sudden outbreak of
      impatience. &ldquo;Money matters are my business&mdash;I say money matters are
      my business, Lecount. Leave it to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly, sir,&rdquo; replied Mrs. Lecount, handing her master the
      blotting-book. &ldquo;You will not forget to be liberal in offering money when
      you know beforehand you don&rsquo;t mean to part with it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t dictate, Lecount! I won&rsquo;t submit to dictation!&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone,
      asserting his own independence more and more impatiently. &ldquo;I mean to
      conduct this business for myself. I am master, Lecount!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are master, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My father was master before me. And I am my father&rsquo;s son. I tell you,
      Lecount, I am my father&rsquo;s son!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount bowed submissively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean to set down any sum of money I think right,&rdquo; pursued Noel
      Vanstone, nodding his little flaxen head vehemently. &ldquo;I mean to send this
      advertisement myself. The servant shall take it to the stationer&rsquo;s to be
      put into the <i>Times</i>. When I ring the bell twice, send the servant.
      You understand, Lecount? Send the servant.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount bowed again and walked slowly to the door. She knew to a
      nicety when to lead her master and when to let him go alone. Experience
      had taught her to govern him in all essential points by giving way to him
      afterward on all points of minor detail. It was a characteristic of his
      weak nature&mdash;as it is of all weak natures&mdash;to assert itself
      obstinately on trifles. The filling in of the blank in the advertisement
      was the trifle in this case; and Mrs. Lecount quieted her master&rsquo;s
      suspicions that she was leading him by instantly conceding it. &ldquo;My mule
      has kicked,&rdquo; she thought to herself, in her own language, as she opened
      the door. &ldquo;I can do no more with him to-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lecount!&rdquo; cried her master, as she stepped into the passage. &ldquo;Come back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount came back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re not offended with me, are you?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone, uneasily.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not, sir,&rdquo; replied Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;As you said just now&mdash;you
      are master.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good creature! Give me your hand.&rdquo; He kissed her hand, and smiled in high
      approval of his own affectionate proceeding. &ldquo;Lecount, you are a worthy
      creature!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. She courtesied and went out. &ldquo;If he
      had any brains in that monkey head of his,&rdquo; she said to herself in the
      passage, &ldquo;what a rascal he would be!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Left by himself, Noel Vanstone became absorbed in anxious reflection over
      the blank space in the advertisement. Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s apparently
      superfluous hint to him to be liberal in offering money when he knew he
      had no intention of parting with it, had been founded on an intimate
      knowledge of his character. He had inherited his father&rsquo;s sordid love of
      money, without inheriting his father&rsquo;s hard-headed capacity for seeing the
      uses to which money can be put. His one idea in connection with his wealth
      was the idea of keeping it. He was such an inborn miser that the bare
      prospect of being liberal in theory only daunted him. He took up the pen;
      laid it down again; and read the anonymous letter for the third time,
      shaking his head over it suspiciously. &ldquo;If I offer this man a large sum of
      money,&rdquo; he thought, on a sudden, &ldquo;how do I know he may not find a means of
      actually making me pay it? Women are always in a hurry. Lecount is always
      in a hurry. I have got the afternoon before me&mdash;I&rsquo;ll take the
      afternoon to consider it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He fretfully put away the blotting-book and the sketch of the
      advertisement on the chair which Mrs. Lecount had just left. As he
      returned to his own seat, he shook his little head solemnly, and arranged
      his white dressing-gown over his knees with the air of a man absorbed in
      anxious thought. Minute after minute passed away; the quarters and the
      half-hours succeeded each other on the dial of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s watch, and
      still Noel Vanstone remained lost in doubt; still no summons for the
      servants disturbed the tranquillity of the parlor bell.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Meanwhile, after parting with Mrs. Lecount, Magdalen had cautiously
      abstained from crossing the road to her lodgings, and had only ventured to
      return after making a circuit in the neighborhood. When she found herself
      once more in Vauxhall Walk, the first object which attracted her attention
      was a cab drawn up before the door of the lodgings. A few steps more in
      advance showed her the landlady&rsquo;s daughter standing at the cab door
      engaged in a dispute with the driver on the subject of his fare. Noticing
      that the girl&rsquo;s back was turned toward her, Magdalen instantly profited by
      that circumstance and slipped unobserved into the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      She glided along the passage, ascended the stairs, and found herself, on
      the first landing, face to face with her traveling companion! There stood
      Mrs. Wragge, with a pile of small parcels hugged up in her arms, anxiously
      waiting the issue of the dispute with the cabman in the street. To return
      was impossible&mdash;the sound of the angry voices below was advancing
      into the passage. To hesitate was worse than useless. But one choice was
      left&mdash;the choice of going on&mdash;and Magdalen desperately took it.
      She pushed by Mrs. Wragge without a word, ran into her own room, tore off
      her cloak, bonnet and wig, and threw them down out of sight in the blank
      space between the sofa-bedstead and the wall.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the first few moments, astonishment bereft Mrs. Wragge of the power of
      speech, and rooted her to the spot where she stood. Two out of the
      collection of parcels in her arms fell from them on the stairs. The sight
      of that catastrophe roused her. &ldquo;Thieves!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, suddenly
      struck by an idea. &ldquo;Thieves!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen heard her through the room door, which she had not had time to
      close completely. &ldquo;Is that you, Mrs. Wragge?&rdquo; she called out in her own
      voice. &ldquo;What is the matter?&rdquo; She snatched up a towel while she spoke,
      dipped it in water, and passed it rapidly over the lower part of her face.
      At the sound of the familiar voice Mrs. Wragge turned round&mdash;dropped
      a third parcel&mdash;and, forgetting it in her astonishment, ascended the
      second flight of stairs. Magdalen stepped out on the first-floor landing,
      with the towel held over her forehead as if she was suffering from
      headache. Her false eyebrows required time for their removal, and a
      headache assumed for the occasion suggested the most convenient pretext
      she could devise for hiding them as they were hidden now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you disturbing the house for?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Pray be quiet; I am
      half blind with the headache.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Anything wrong, ma&rsquo;am?&rdquo; inquired the landlady from the passage.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing whatever,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;My friend is timid; and the dispute
      with the cabman has frightened her. Pay the man what he wants, and let him
      go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where is She?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Wragge, in a tremulous whisper. &ldquo;Where&rsquo;s the
      woman who scuttled by me into your room?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pooh!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;No woman scuttled by you&mdash;as you call it.
      Look in and see for yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She threw open the door. Mrs. Wragge walked into the room&mdash;looked all
      over it&mdash;saw nobody&mdash;and indicated her astonishment at the
      result by dropping a fourth parcel, and trembling helplessly from head to
      foot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I saw her go in here,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, in awestruck accents. &ldquo;A woman
      in a gray cloak and a poke bonnet. A rude woman. She scuttled by me on the
      stairs&mdash;she did. Here&rsquo;s the room, and no woman in it. Give us a
      Prayer-book!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, turning deadly pale, and letting her
      whole remaining collection of parcels fall about her in a little cascade
      of commodities. &ldquo;I want to read something Good. I want to think of my
      latter end. I&rsquo;ve seen a Ghost!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nonsense!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re dreaming; the shopping has been too
      much for you. Go into your own room and take your bonnet off.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve heard tell of ghosts in night-gowns, ghosts in sheets, and ghosts in
      chains,&rdquo; proceeded Mrs. Wragge, standing petrified in her own magic circle
      of linen-drapers&rsquo; parcels. &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s a worse ghost than any of &lsquo;em&mdash;a
      ghost in a gray cloak and a poke bonnet. I know what it is,&rdquo; continued
      Mrs. Wragge, melting into penitent tears. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a judgment on me for being
      so happy away from the captain. It&rsquo;s a judgment on me for having been down
      at heel in half the shops in London, first with one shoe and then with the
      other, all the time I&rsquo;ve been out. I&rsquo;m a sinful creature. Don&rsquo;t let go of
      me&mdash;whatever you do, my dear, don&rsquo;t let go of me!&rdquo; She caught
      Magdalen fast by the arm and fell into another trembling fit at the bare
      idea of being left by herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      The one remaining chance in such an emergency as this was to submit to
      circumstances. Magdalen took Mrs. Wragge to a chair; having first placed
      it in such a position as might enable her to turn her back on her
      traveling-companion, while she removed the false eyebrows by the help of a
      little water. &ldquo;Wait a minute there,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and try if you can compose
      yourself while I bathe my head.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Compose myself?&rdquo; repeated Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;How am I to compose myself when
      my head feels off my shoulders? The worst Buzzing I ever had with the
      Cookery-book was nothing to the Buzzing I&rsquo;ve got now with the Ghost.
      Here&rsquo;s a miserable end to a holiday! You may take me back again, my dear,
      whenever you like&mdash;I&rsquo;ve had enough of it already!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having at last succeeded in removing the eyebrows, Magdalen was free to
      combat the unfortunate impression produced on her companion&rsquo;s mind by
      every weapon of persuasion which her ingenuity could employ.
    </p>
    <p>
      The attempt proved useless. Mrs. Wragge persisted&mdash;on evidence which,
      it may be remarked in parenthesis, would have satisfied many wiser
      ghost-seers than herself&mdash;in believing that she had been
      supernaturally favored by a visitor from the world of spirits. All that
      Magdalen could do was to ascertain, by cautious investigation, that Mrs.
      Wragge had not been quick enough to identify the supposed ghost with the
      character of the old North-country lady in the Entertainment. Having
      satisfied herself on this point, she had no resource but to leave the rest
      to the natural incapability of retaining impressions&mdash;unless those
      impressions were perpetually renewed&mdash;which was one of the
      characteristic infirmities of her companion&rsquo;s weak mind. After fortifying
      Mrs. Wragge by reiterated assurances that one appearance (according to all
      the laws and regulations of ghosts) meant nothing unless it was
      immediately followed by two more&mdash;after patiently leading back her
      attention to the parcels dropped on the floor and on the stairs&mdash;and
      after promising to keep the door of communication ajar between the two
      rooms if Mrs. Wragge would engage on her side to retire to her own
      chamber, and to say no more on the terrible subject of the ghost&mdash;Magdalen
      at last secured the privilege of reflecting uninterruptedly on the events
      of that memorable day.
    </p>
    <p>
      Two serious consequences had followed her first step forward. Mrs. Lecount
      had entrapped her into speaking in her own voice, and accident had
      confronted her with Mrs. Wragge in disguise.
    </p>
    <p>
      What advantage had she gained to set against these disasters? The
      advantage of knowing more of Noel Vanstone and of Mrs. Lecount than she
      might have discovered in months if she had trusted to inquiries made for
      her by others. One uncertainty which had hitherto perplexed her was set at
      rest already. The scheme she had privately devised against Michael
      Vanstone&mdash;which Captain Wragge&rsquo;s sharp insight had partially
      penetrated when she first warned him that their partnership must be
      dissolved&mdash;was a scheme which she could now plainly see must be
      abandoned as hopeless, in the case of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s son. The father&rsquo;s
      habits of speculation had been the pivot on which the whole machinery of
      her meditated conspiracy had been constructed to turn. No such
      vantage-ground was discoverable in the doubly sordid character of the son.
      Noel Vanstone was invulnerable on the very point which had presented
      itself in his father as open to attack.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having reached this conclusion, how was she to shape her future course?
      What new means could she discover which would lead her secretly to her
      end, in defiance of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s malicious vigilance and Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      miserly distrust?
    </p>
    <p>
      She was seated before the looking-glass, mechanically combing out her
      hair, while that all-important consideration occupied her mind. The
      agitation of the moment had raised a feverish color in her cheeks, and had
      brightened the light in her large gray eyes. She was conscious of looking
      her best; conscious how her beauty gained by contrast, after the removal
      of the disguise. Her lovely light brown hair looked thicker and softer
      than ever, now that it had escaped from its imprisonment under the gray
      wig. She twisted it this way and that, with quick, dexterous fingers; she
      laid it in masses on her shoulders; she threw it back from them in a heap
      and turned sidewise to see how it fell&mdash;to see her back and shoulders
      freed from the artificial deformities of the padded cloak. After a moment
      she faced the looking-glass once more; plunged both hands deep in her
      hair; and, resting her elbows on the table, looked closer and closer at
      the reflection of herself, until her breath began to dim the glass. &ldquo;I can
      twist any man alive round my finger,&rdquo; she thought, with a smile of superb
      triumph, &ldquo;as long as I keep my looks! If that contemptible wretch saw me
      now&mdash;&rdquo; She shrank from following that thought to its end, with a
      sudden horror of herself: she drew back from the glass, shuddering, and
      put her hands over her face. &ldquo;Oh, Frank!&rdquo; she murmured, &ldquo;but for you, what
      a wretch I might be!&rdquo; Her eager fingers snatched the little white silk bag
      from its hiding-place in her bosom; her lips devoured it with silent
      kisses. &ldquo;My darling! my angel! Oh, Frank, how I love you!&rdquo; The tears
      gushed into her eyes. She passionately dried them, restored the bag to its
      place, and turned her back on the looking-glass. &ldquo;No more of myself,&rdquo; she
      thought; &ldquo;no more of my mad, miserable self for to-day!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Shrinking from all further contemplation of her next step in advance&mdash;shrinking
      from the fast-darkening future, with which Noel Vanstone was now
      associated in her inmost thoughts&mdash;she looked impatiently about the
      room for some homely occupation which might take her out of herself. The
      disguise which she had flung down between the wall and the bed recurred to
      her memory. It was impossible to leave it there. Mrs. Wragge (now occupied
      in sorting her parcels) might weary of her employment, might come in again
      at a moment&rsquo;s notice, might pass near the bed, and see the gray cloak.
      What was to be done?
    </p>
    <p>
      Her first thought was to put the disguise back in her trunk. But after
      what had happened, there was danger in trusting it so near to herself
      while she and Mrs. Wragge were together under the same roof. She resolved
      to be rid of it that evening, and boldly determined on sending it back to
      Birmingham. Her bonnet-box fitted into her trunk. She took the box out,
      thrust in the wig and cloak, and remorselessly flattened down the bonnet
      at the top. The gown (which she had not yet taken off) was her own; Mrs.
      Wragge had been accustomed to see her in it&mdash;there was no need to
      send the gown back. Before closing the box, she hastily traced these lines
      on a sheet of paper: &ldquo;I took the inclosed things away by mistake. Please
      keep them for me, with the rest of my luggage in your possession, until
      you hear from me again.&rdquo; Putting the paper on the top of the bonnet, she
      directed the box to Captain Wragge at Birmingham, took it downstairs
      immediately, and sent the landlady&rsquo;s daughter away with it to the nearest
      Receiving-house. &ldquo;That difficulty is disposed of,&rdquo; she thought, as she
      went back to her own room again.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge was still occupied in sorting her parcels on her narrow little
      bed. She turned round with a faint scream when Magdalen looked in at her.
      &ldquo;I thought it was the ghost again,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m trying to take
      warning, my dear, by what&rsquo;s happened to me. I&rsquo;ve put all my parcels
      straight, just as the captain would like to see &lsquo;em. I&rsquo;m up at heel with
      both shoes. If I close my eyes to-night&mdash;which I don&rsquo;t think I shall&mdash;I&rsquo;ll
      go to sleep as straight as my legs will let me. And I&rsquo;ll never have
      another holiday as long as I live. I hope I shall be forgiven,&rdquo; said Mrs.
      Wragge, mournfully shaking her head. &ldquo;I humbly hope I shall be forgiven.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Forgiven!&rdquo; repeated Magdalen. &ldquo;If other women wanted as little forgiving
      as you do&mdash;Well! well! Suppose you open some of these parcels. Come!
      I want to see what you have been buying to-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge hesitated, sighed penitently, considered a little, stretched
      out her hand timidly toward one of the parcels, thought of the
      supernatural warning, and shrank back from her own purchases with a
      desperate exertion of self-control.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Open this one.&rdquo; said Magdalen, to encourage her: &ldquo;what is it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s faded blue eyes began to brighten dimly, in spite of her
      remorse; but she self-denyingly shook her head. The master-passion of
      shopping might claim his own again&mdash;but the ghost was not laid yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you get it at a bargain?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, confidentially.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dirt cheap!&rdquo; cried poor Mrs. Wragge, falling headlong into the snare, and
      darting at the parcel as eagerly as if nothing had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen kept her gossiping over her purchases for an hour or more, and
      then wisely determined to distract her attention from all ghostly
      recollections in another way by taking her out for a walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they left the lodgings, the door of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s house opened, and
      the woman-servant appeared, bent on another errand. She was apparently
      charged with a letter on this occasion which she carried carefully in her
      hand. Conscious of having formed no plan yet either for attack or defense,
      Magdalen wondered, with a momentary dread, whether Mrs. Lecount had
      decided already on opening fresh communications, and whether the letter
      was directed to &ldquo;Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The let ter bore no such address. Noel Vanstone had solved his pecuniary
      problem at last. The blank space in the advertisement was filled up, and
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s acknowledgment of the captain&rsquo;s anonymous warning was now
      on its way to insertion in the <i>Times</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE THIRD SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Extract from the Advertising Columns of &ldquo;The Times.&rdquo;</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;AN UNKNOWN FRIEND is requested to mention (by advertisement) an address
      at which a letter can reach him. The receipt of the information which he
      offers will be acknowledged by a reward of Five Pounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Captain Wragge to Magdalen.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Birmingham, July 2d, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR GIRL&mdash;The box containing the articles of costumes which you
      took away by mistake has come safely to hand. Consider it under my special
      protection until I hear from you again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I embrace this opportunity to assure you once more of my unalterable
      fidelity to your interests. Without attempting to intrude myself into your
      confidence, may I inquire whether Mr. Noel Vanstone has consented to do
      you justice? I greatly fear he has declined&mdash;in which case I can lay
      my hand on my heart, and solemnly declare that his meanness revolts me.
      Why do I feel a foreboding that you have appealed to him in vain? Why do I
      find myself viewing this fellow in the light of a noxious insect? We are
      total strangers to each other; I have no sort of knowledge of him, except
      the knowledge I picked up in making your inquiries. Has my intense
      sympathy with your interests made my perceptions prophetic? or, to put it
      fancifully, is there really such a thing as a former state of existence?
      and has Mr. Noel Vanstone mortally insulted me&mdash;say, in some other
      planet?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I write, my dear Magdalen, as you see, with my customary dash of humor.
      But I am serious in placing my services at your disposal. Don&rsquo;t let the
      question of terms cause you an instant&rsquo;s hesitation. I accept beforehand
      any terms you like to mention. If your present plans point that way, I am
      ready to squeeze Mr. Noel Vanstone, in your interests, till the gold oozes
      out of him at every pore. Pardon the coarseness of this metaphor. My
      anxiety to be of service to you rushes into words; lays my meaning, in the
      rough, at your feet; and leaves your taste to polish it with the choicest
      ornaments of the English language.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How is my unfortunate wife? I am afraid you find it quite impossible to
      keep her up at heel, or to mold her personal appearance into harmony with
      the eternal laws of symmetry and order. Does she attempt to be too
      familiar with you? I have always been accustomed to check her, in this
      respect. She has never been permitted to call me anything but Captain; and
      on the rare occasions since our union, when circumstances may have obliged
      her to address me by letter, her opening form of salutation has been
      rigidly restricted to &lsquo;Dear Sir.&rsquo; Accept these trifling domestic
      particulars as suggesting hints which may be useful to you in managing
      Mrs. Wragge; and believe me, in anxious expectation of hearing from you
      again,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Devotedly yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HORATIO WRAGGE.&rdquo; III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah to Magdalen</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>[Forwarded, with the Two Letters that follow it, from the Post-office,
      Birmingham.]</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, Kensington, July 1st.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAREST MAGDALEN&mdash;When you write next (and pray write soon!)
      address your letter to me at Miss Garth&rsquo;s. I have left my situation; and
      some little time may elapse before I find another.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now it is all over I may acknowledge to you, my darling, that I was not
      happy. I tried hard to win the affection of the two little girls I had to
      teach; but they seemed, I am sure I can&rsquo;t tell why, to dislike me from the
      first. Their mother I have no reason to complain of. But their
      grandmother, who was really the ruling power in the house, made my life
      very hard to me. My inexperience in teaching was a constant subject of
      remark with her; and my difficulties with the children were always visited
      on me as if they had been entirely of my own making. I tell you this, so
      that you may not suppose I regret having left my situation. Far from it,
      my love&mdash;I am glad to be out of the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have saved a little money, Magdalen; and I should so like to spend it
      in staying a few days with you. My heart aches for a sight of my sister;
      my ears are weary for the sound of her voice. A word from you telling me
      where we can meet, is all I want. Think of it&mdash;pray think of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t suppose I am discouraged by this first check. There are many kind
      people in the world; and some of them may employ me next time. The way to
      happiness is often very hard to find; harder, I almost think, for women
      than for men. But if we only try patiently, and try long enough, we reach
      it at last&mdash;in heaven, if not on earth. I think <i>my</i> way now is
      the way which leads to seeing you again. Don&rsquo;t forget that, my love, the
      next time you think of
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Miss Garth to Magdalen.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, July 1st.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MAGDALEN&mdash;You have no useless remonstrances to apprehend at
      the sight of my handwriting. My only object in this letter is to tell you
      something which I know your sister will not tell you of her own accord.
      She is entirely ignorant that I am writing to you. Keep her in ignorance,
      if you wish to spare her unnecessary anxiety, and me unnecessary distress.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah&rsquo;s letter, no doubt, tells you that she has left her situation. I
      feel it my painful duty to add that she has left it on your account.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The matter occurred in this manner. Messrs. Wyatt, Pendril, and Gwilt are
      the solicitors of the gentleman in whose family Norah was employed. The
      life which you have chosen for yourself was known as long ago as December
      last to all the partners. You were discovered performing in public at
      Derby by the person who had been employed to trace you at York; and that
      discovery was communicated by Mr. Wyatt to Norah&rsquo;s employer a few days
      since, in reply to direct inquiries about you on that gentleman&rsquo;s part.
      His wife and his mother (who lives with him) had expressly desired that he
      would make those inquiries; their doubts having been aroused by Norah&rsquo;s
      evasive answers when they questioned her about her sister. You know Norah
      too well to blame her for this. Evasion was the only escape your present
      life had left her, from telling a downright falsehood.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That same day, the two ladies of the family, the elder and the younger,
      sent for your sister, and told her they had discovered that you were a
      public performer, roaming from place to place in the country under an
      assumed name. They were just enough not to blame Norah for this; they were
      just enough to acknowledge that her conduct had been as irreproachable as
      I had guaranteed it should be when I got her the situation. But, at the
      same time, they made it a positive condition of her continuing in their
      employment that she should never permit you to visit her at their house,
      or to meet her and walk out with her when she was in attendance on the
      children. Your sister&mdash;who has patiently borne all hardships that
      fell on herself&mdash;instantly resented the slur cast on <i>you</i>. She
      gave her employers warning on the spot. High words followed, and she left
      the house that evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no wish to distress you by representing the loss of this situation
      in the light of a disaster. Norah was not so happy in it as I had hoped
      and believed she would be. It was impossible for me to know beforehand
      that the children were sullen and intractable, or that the husband&rsquo;s
      mother was accustomed to make her domineering disposition felt by every
      one in the house. I will readily admit that Norah is well out of this
      situation. But the harm does not stop here. For all you and I know to the
      contrary, the harm may go on. What has happened in this situation may
      happen in another. Your way of life, however pure your conduct may be&mdash;and
      I will do you the justice to believe it pure&mdash;is a suspicious way of
      life to all respectable people. I have lived long enough in this world to
      know that the sense of Propriety, in nine Englishwomen out of ten, makes
      no allowances and feels no pity. Norah&rsquo;s next employers may discover you;
      and Norah may throw up a situation next time which we may never be able to
      find for her again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I leave you to consider this. My child, don&rsquo;t think I am hard on you. I
      am jealous for your sister&rsquo;s tranquillity. If you will forget the past,
      Magdalen, and come back, trust to your old governess to forget it too, and
      to give you the home which your father and mother once gave her. Your
      friend, my dear, always,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH.&rdquo; V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Francis Clare, Jun., to Magdalen.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shanghai, China, April 23d, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MAGDALEN&mdash;I have deferred answering your letter, in
      consequence of the distracted state of my mind, which made me unfit to
      write to you. I am still unfit, but I feel I ought to delay no longer. My
      sense of honor fortifies me, and I undergo the pain of writing this
      letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My prospects in China are all at an end. The Firm to which I was brutally
      consigned, as if I was a bale of merchandise, has worn out my patience by
      a series of petty insults; and I have felt compelled, from motives of
      self-respect, to withdraw my services, which were undervalued from the
      first. My returning to England under these circumstances is out of the
      question. I have been too cruelly used in my own country to wish to go
      back to it, even if I could. I propose embarking on board a private
      trading-vessel in these seas in a mercantile capacity, to make my way, if
      I can, for myself. How it will end, or what will happen to me next, is
      more than I can say. It matters little what becomes of me. I am a wanderer
      and an exile, entirely through the fault of others. The unfeeling desire
      at home to get rid of me has accomplished its object. I am got rid of for
      good.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is only one more sacrifice left for me to make&mdash;the sacrifice
      of my heart&rsquo;s dearest feelings. With no prospects before me, with no
      chance of coming home, what hope can I feel of performing my engagement to
      yourself? None! A more selfish man than I am might hold you to that
      engagement; a less considerate man than I am might keep you waiting for
      years&mdash;and to no purpose after all. Cruelly as they have been
      trampled on, my feelings are too sensitive to allow me to do this. I write
      it with the tears in my eyes&mdash;you shall not link your fate to an
      outcast. Accept these heart-broken lines as releasing you from your
      promise. Our engagement is at an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The one consolation which supports me in bidding you farewell is, that
      neither of us is to blame. You may have acted weakly, under my father&rsquo;s
      influence, but I am sure you acted for the best. Nobody knew what the
      fatal consequences of driving me out of England would be but myself&mdash;and
      I was not listened to. I yielded to my father, I yielded to you; and this
      is the end of it!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am suffering too acutely to write more. May you never know what my
      withdrawal from our engagement has cost me! I beg you will not blame
      yourself. It is not your fault that I have had all my energies misdirected
      by others&mdash;it is not your fault that I have never had a fair chance
      of getting on in life. Forget the deserted wretch who breathes his
      heartfelt prayers for your happiness, and who will ever remain your friend
      and well-wisher.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;FRANCIS CLARE, Jun.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      VI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Francis Clare, Sen., to Magdalen</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>[Inclosing the preceding Letter.]</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I always told your poor father my son was a Fool, but I never knew he was
      a Scoundrel until the mail came in from China. I have every reason to
      believe that he has left his employers under the most disgraceful
      circumstances. Forget him from this time forth, as I do. When you and I
      last set eyes on each other, you behaved well to me in this business. All
      I can now say in return, I do say. My girl, I am sorry for you,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;F. C.&rdquo; VII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Wragge to her Husband.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dear sir for mercy&rsquo;s sake come here and help us She had a dreadful letter
      I don&rsquo;t know what yesterday but she read it in bed and when I went in with
      her breakfast I found her dead and if the doctor had not been two doors
      off nobody else could have brought her to life again and she sits and
      looks dreadful and won&rsquo;t speak a word her eyes frighten me so I shake from
      head to foot oh please do come I keep things as tidy as I can and I do
      like her so and she used to be so kind to me and the landlord says he&rsquo;s
      afraid she&rsquo;ll destroy herself I wish I could write straight but I do shake
      so your dutiful wife matilda wragge excuse faults and beg you on my knees
      come and help us the Doctor good man will put some of his own writing into
      this for fear you can&rsquo;t make out mine and remain once more your dutiful
      wife matilda wragge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <i>Added by the Doctor.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;I beg to inform you that I was yesterday called into a
      neighbor&rsquo;s in Vauxhall Walk to attend a young lady who had been suddenly
      taken ill. I recovered her with great difficulty from one of the most
      obstinate fainting-fits I ever remember to have met with. Since that time
      she has had no relapse, but there is apparently some heavy distress
      weighing on her mind which it has hitherto been found impossible to
      remove. She sits, as I am informed, perfectly silent, and perfectly
      unconscious of what goes on about her, for hours together, with a letter
      in her hand which she will allow nobody to take from her. If this state of
      depression continues, very distressing mental consequences may follow; and
      I only do my duty in suggesting that some relative or friend should
      interfere who has influence enough to rouse her. Your obedient servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;RICHARD JARVIS, M.R.C.S.&rdquo; VIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah to Magdalen.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;July 5th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake, write me one line to say if you are still at Birmingham,
      and where I can find you there! I have just heard from old Mr. Clare. Oh,
      Magdalen, if you have no pity on yourself, have some pity on me! The
      thought of you alone among strangers, the thought of you heart-broken
      under this dreadful blow, never leaves me for an instant. No words can
      tell how I feel for you! My own love, remember the better days at home
      before that cowardly villain stole his way into your heart; remember the
      happy time at Combe-Raven when we were always together. Oh, don&rsquo;t, don&rsquo;t
      treat me like a stranger! We are alone in the world now&mdash;let me come
      and comfort you, let me be more than a sister to you, if I can. One line&mdash;only
      one line to tell me where I can find you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      IX.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Magdalen to Norah.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;July 7th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAREST NORAH&mdash;All that your love for me can wish your letter has
      done. You, and you alone, have found your way to my heart. I could think
      again, I could feel again, after reading what you have written to me. Let
      this assurance quiet your anxieties. My mind lives and breathes once more&mdash;it
      was dead until I got your letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The shock I have suffered has left a strange quietness in me. I feel as
      if I had parted from my former self&mdash;as if the hopes once so dear to
      me had all gone back to some past time from which I am now far removed. I
      can look at the wreck of my life more calmly, Norah, than you could look
      at it if we were both together again. I can trust myself already to write
      to Frank.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My darling, I think no woman ever knows how utterly she has given herself
      up to the man she loves&mdash;until that man has ill-treated her. Can you
      pity my weakness if I confess to having felt a pang at my heart when I
      read that part of your letter which calls Frank a coward and a villain?
      Nobody can despise me for this as I despise myself. I am like a dog who
      crawls back and licks the master&rsquo;s hand that has beaten him. But it is so&mdash;I
      would confess it to nobody but you&mdash;indeed, indeed it is so. He has
      deceived and deserted me; he has written me a cruel farewell &mdash;but
      don&rsquo;t call him a villain! If he repented and came back to me, I would die
      rather than marry him now&mdash;but it grates on me to see that word
      coward written against him in your hand! If he is weak of purpose, who
      tried his weakness beyond what it could bear? Do you think this would have
      happened if Michael Vanstone had not robbed us of our own, and forced
      Frank away from me to China? In a week from to-day the year of waiting
      would have come to an end, and I should have been Frank&rsquo;s wife, if my
      marriage portion had not been taken from me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will say, after what has happened, it is well that I have escaped.
      My love! there is something perverse in my heart which answers, No! Better
      have been Frank&rsquo;s wretched wife than the free woman I am now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have not written to him. He sends me no address at which I could write,
      even if I would. But I have not the wish. I will wait before I send him <i>my</i>
      farewell. If a day ever comes when I have the fortune which my father once
      promised I should bring to him, do you know what I would do with it? I
      would send it all to Frank, as my revenge on him for his letter; as the
      last farewell word on my side to the man who has deserted me. Let me live
      for that day! Let me live, Norah, in the hope of better times for <i>you</i>,
      which is all the hope I have left. When I think of your hard life, I can
      almost feel the tears once more in my weary eyes. I can almost think I
      have come back again to my former self.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will not think me hard-hearted and ungrateful if I say that we must
      wait a little yet before we meet. I want to be more fit to see you than I
      am now. I want to put Frank further away from me, and to bring you nearer
      still. Are these good reasons? I don&rsquo;t know&mdash;don&rsquo;t ask me for
      reasons. Take the kiss I have put for you here, where the little circle is
      drawn on the paper; and let that bring us together for the present till I
      write again. Good-by, my love. My heart is true to you, Norah, but I dare
      not see you yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN.&rdquo; X.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Magdalen to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;I have been long in answering your letter; but
      you know what has happened, and you will forgive me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All that I have to say may be said in a few words. You may depend on my
      never making the general Sense of Propriety my enemy again: I am getting
      knowledge enough of the world to make it my accomplice next time. Norah
      will never leave another situation on my account&mdash;my life as a public
      performer is at an end. It was harmless enough, God knows&mdash;I may
      live, and so may you, to mourn the day when I parted from it&mdash;but I
      shall never return to it again. It has left me, as Frank has left me, as
      all my better thoughts have left me except my thoughts of Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Enough of myself! Shall I tell you some news to brighten this dull
      letter? Mr. Michael Vanstone is dead, and Mr. Noel Vanstone has succeeded
      to the possession of my fortune and Norah&rsquo;s. He is quite worthy of his
      inheritance. In his father&rsquo;s place, he would have ruined us as his father
      did.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no more to say that you would care to know. Don&rsquo;t be distressed
      about me. I am trying to recover my spirits&mdash;I am trying to forget
      the poor deluded girl who was foolish enough to be fond of Frank in the
      old days at Combe-Raven. Sometimes a pang comes which tells me the girl
      won&rsquo;t be forgotten&mdash;but not often.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It was very kind of you, when you wrote to such a lost creature as I am,
      to sign yourself&mdash;<i>always my friend.</i> &lsquo;Always&rsquo; is a bold word,
      my dear old governess! I wonder whether you will ever want to recall it?
      It will make no difference if you do, in the gratitude I shall always feel
      for the trouble you took with me when I was a little girl. I have ill
      repaid that trouble&mdash;ill repaid your kindness to me in after life. I
      ask your pardon and your pity. The best thing you can do for both of us is
      to forget me. Affectionately yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P.S.&mdash;I open the envelope to add one line. For God&rsquo;s sake, don&rsquo;t
      show this letter to Norah!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      XI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Magdalen to Captain Wragge.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Vauxhall Walk, July 17th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I am not mistaken, it was arranged that I should write to you at
      Birmingham as soon as I felt myself composed enough to think of the
      future. My mind is settled at last, and I am now able to accept the
      services which you have so unreservedly offered to me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg you will forgive the manner in which I received you on your arrival
      in this house, after hearing the news of my sudden illness. I was quite
      incapable of controlling myself&mdash;I was suffering an agony of mind
      which for the time deprived me of my senses. It is only your due that I
      should now thank you for treating me with great forbearance at a time when
      forbearance was mercy.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will mention what I wish you to do as plainly and briefly as I can.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the first place, I request you to dispose (as privately as possible)
      of every article of costume used in the dramatic Entertainment. I have
      done with our performances forever; and I wish to be set free from
      everything which might accidentally connect me with them in the future.
      The key of my box is inclosed in this letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The other box, which contains my own dresses, you will be kind enough to
      forward to this house. I do not ask you to bring it yourself, because I
      have a far more important commission to intrust to you.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Referring to the note which you left for me at your departure, I conclude
      that you have by this time traced Mr. Noel Vanstone from Vauxhall Walk to
      the residence which he is now occupying. If you have made the discovery&mdash;and
      if you are quite sure of not having drawn the attention either of Mrs.
      Lecount or her master to yourself&mdash;I wish you to arrange immediately
      for my residing (with you and Mrs. Wragge) in the same town or village in
      which Mr. Noel Vanstone has taken up his abode. I write this, it is hardly
      necessary to say, under the impression that, wherever he may now be
      living, he is settled in the place for some little time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you can find a small furnished house for me on these conditions which
      is to be let by the month, take it for a month certain to begin with. Say
      that it is for your wife, your niece, and yourself, and use any assumed
      name you please, as long as it is a name that can be trusted to defeat the
      most suspicious inquiries. I leave this to your experience in such
      matters. The secret of who we really are must be kept as strictly as if it
      was a secret on which our lives depend.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Any expenses to which you may be put in carrying out my wishes I will
      immediately repay. If you easily find the sort of house I want, there is
      no need for your returning to London to fetch us. We can join you as soon
      as we know where to go. The house must be perfectly respectable, and must
      be reasonably near to Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s present residence, wherever that
      is.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You must allow me to be silent in this letter as to the object which I
      have now in view. I am unwilling to risk an explanation in writing. When
      all our preparations are made, you shall hear what I propose to do from my
      own lips; and I shall expect you to tell me plainly, in return, whether
      you will or will not give me the help I want on the best terms which I am
      able to offer you.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One word more before I seal up this letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If any opportunity falls in your way after you have taken the house, and
      before we join you, of exchanging a few civil words either with Mr. Noel
      Vanstone or Mrs. Lecount, take advantage of it. It is very important to my
      present object that we should become acquainted with each other&mdash;as
      the purely accidental result of our being near neighbors. I want you to
      smooth the way toward this end if you can, before Mrs. Wragge and I come
      to you. Pray throw away no chance of observing Mrs. Lecount, in
      particular, very carefully. Whatever help you can give me at the outset in
      blindfolding that woman&rsquo;s sharp eyes will be the most precious help I have
      ever received at your hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no need to answer this letter immediately&mdash;unless I have
      written it under a mistaken impression of what you have accomplished since
      leaving London. I have taken our lodgings on for another week; and I can
      wait to hear from you until you are able to send me such news as I wish to
      receive. You may be quite sure of my patience for the future, under all
      possible circumstances. My caprices are at an end, and my violent temper
      has tried your forbearance for the last time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN.&rdquo; XII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Captain Wragge to Magdalen.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;North Shingles Villa, Aldborough, Suffolk, July 22d.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR GIRL&mdash;Your letter has charmed and touched me. Your excuses
      have gone straight to my heart; and your confidence in my humble abilities
      has followed in the same direction. The pulse of the old militia-man
      throbs with pride as he thinks of the trust you have placed in him, and
      vows to deserve it. Don&rsquo;t be surprised at this genial outburst. All
      enthusiastic natures must explode occasionally; and <i>my</i> form of
      explosion is&mdash;Words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Everything you wanted me to do is done. The house is taken; the name is
      found; and I am personally acquainted with Mrs. Lecount. After reading
      this general statement, you will naturally be interested in possessing
      your mind next of the accompanying details. Here they are, at your
      service:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The day after leaving you in London, I traced Mr. Noel Vanstone to this
      curious little seaside snuggery. One of his father&rsquo;s innumerable bargains
      was a house at Aldborough&mdash;a rising watering-place, or Mr. Michael
      Vanstone would not have invested a farthing in it. In this house the
      despicable little miser, who lived rent free in London, now lives, rent
      free again, on the coast of Suffolk. He is settled in his present abode
      for the summer and autumn; and you and Mrs. Wragge have only to join me
      here, to be established five doors away from him in this elegant villa. I
      have got the whole house for three guineas a week, with the option of
      remaining through the autumn at the same price. In a fashionable
      watering-place, such a residence would have been cheap at double the
      money.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our new name has been chosen with a wary eye to your suggestions. My
      books&mdash;I hope you have not forgotten my Books?&mdash;contain, under
      the heading of <i>Skins To Jump Into,</i> a list of individuals retired
      from this mortal scene, with whose names, families, and circumstances I am
      well acquainted. Into some of those Skins I have been compelled to Jump,
      in the exercise of my profession, at former periods of my career. Others
      are still in the condition of new dresses and remain to be tried on. The
      Skin which will exactly fit us originally clothed the bodies of a family
      named Bygrave. I am in Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s skin at this moment-and it fits
      without a wrinkle. If you will oblige me by slipping into Miss Bygrave
      (Christian name, Susan); and if you will afterward push Mrs. Wragge&mdash;anyhow;
      head foremost if you like&mdash;into Mrs. Bygrave (Christian name, Julia),
      the transformation will be complete. Permit me to inform you that I am
      your paternal uncle. My worthy brother was established twenty years ago in
      the mahogany and logwood trade at Belize, Honduras. He died in that place;
      and is buried on the south-west side of the local cemetery, with a neat
      monument of native wood carved by a self-taught negro artist. Nineteen
      months afterward his widow died of apoplexy at a boarding-house in
      Cheltenham. She was supposed to be the most corpulent woman in England,
      and was accommodated on the ground-floor of the house in consequence of
      the difficulty of getting her up and down stairs. You are her only child;
      you have been under my care since the sad event at Cheltenham; you are
      twenty-one years old on the second of August next; and, corpulence
      excepted, you are the living image of your mother. I trouble you with
      these specimens of my intimate knowledge of our new family Skin, to quiet
      your mind on the subject of future inquiries. Trust to me and my books to
      satisfy any amount of inquiry. In the meantime write down our new name and
      address, and see how they strike you: &lsquo;Mr. Bygrave, Mrs. Bygrave, Miss
      Bygrave; North Shingles Villa, Aldborough.&rsquo; Upon my life, it reads
      remarkably well!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The last detail I have to communicate refers to my acquaintance with Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We met yesterday, in the grocer&rsquo;s shop here. Keeping my ears open, I
      found that Mrs. Lecount wanted a particular kind of tea which the man had
      not got, and which he believed could not be procured any nearer than
      Ipswich. I instantly saw my way to beginning an acquaintance, at the
      trifling expense of a journey to that flourishing city. &lsquo;I have business
      to-day in Ipswich,&rsquo; I said, &lsquo;and I propose returning to Aldborough (if I
      can get back in time) this evening. Pray allow me to take your order for
      the tea, and to bring it back with my own parcels.&rsquo; Mrs. Lecount politely
      declined giving me the trouble&mdash;I politely insisted on taking it. We
      fell into conversation. There is no need to trouble you with our talk. The
      result of it on my mind is&mdash;that Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s one weak point, if
      she has such a thing at all, is a taste for science, implanted by her
      deceased husband, the professor. I think I see a chance here of working my
      way into her good graces, and casting a little needful dust into those
      handsome black eyes of hers. Acting on this idea when I purchased the
      lady&rsquo;s tea at Ipswich, I also bought on my own account that far-famed
      pocket-manual of knowledge, &lsquo;Joyce&rsquo;s Scientific Dialogues.&rsquo; Possessing, as
      I do, a quick memory and boundless confidence in myself, I propose
      privately inflating my new skin with as much ready-made science as it will
      hold, and presenting Mr. Bygrave to Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s notice in the character
      of the most highly informed man she has met with since the professor&rsquo;s
      death. The necessity of blindfolding that woman (to use your own admirable
      expression) is as clear to me as to you. If it is to be done in the way I
      propose, make your mind easy&mdash;Wragge, inflated by Joyce, is the man
      to do it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You now have my whole budget of news. Am I, or am I not, worthy of your
      confidence in me? I say nothing of my devouring anxiety to know what your
      objects really are&mdash;that anxiety will be satisfied when we meet.
      Never yet, my dear girl, did I long to administer a productive pecuniary
      Squeeze to any human creature, as I long to administer it to Mr. Noel
      Vanstone. I say no more. <i>Verbum sap.</i> Pardon the pedantry of a Latin
      quotation, and believe me,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Entirely yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HORATIO WRAGGE.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P.S.&mdash;I await my instructions, as you requested. You have only to
      say whether I shall return to London for the purpose of escorting you to
      this place, or whether I shall wait here to receive you. The house is in
      perfect order, the weather is charming, and the sea is as smooth as Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s apron. She has just passed the window, and we have exchanged
      bows. A sharp woman, my dear Magdalen; but Joyce and I together may prove
      a trifle too much for her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      XIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Extract from the &ldquo;East Suffolk Argus.&rdquo;</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ALDBOROUGH.&mdash;We notice with pleasure the arrival of visitors to this
      healthful and far-famed watering-place earlier in the season than usual
      during the present year. <i>Esto Perpetua</i> is all we have to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VISITORS&rsquo; LIST.&mdash;Arrivals since our last. North Shingles Villa&mdash;Mrs.
      Bygrave; Miss Bygrave.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE FOURTH SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      ALDBOROUGH, SUFFOLK
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE most striking spectacle presented to a stranger by the shores of
      Suffolk is the extraordinary defenselessness of the land against the
      encroachments of the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      At Aldborough, as elsewhere on this coast, local traditions are, for the
      most part, traditions which have been literally drowned. The site of the
      old town, once a populous and thriving port, has almost entirely
      disappeared in the sea. The German Ocean has swallowed up streets,
      market-places, jetties, and public walks; and the merciless waters,
      consummating their work of devastation, closed, no longer than eighty
      years since, over the salt-master&rsquo;s cottage at Aldborough, now famous in
      memory only as the birthplace of the poet CRABBE.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thrust back year after year by the advancing waves, the inhabitants have
      receded, in the present century, to the last morsel of land which is firm
      enough to be built on&mdash;a strip of ground hemmed in between a marsh on
      one side and the sea on the other. Here, trusting for their future
      security to certain sand-hills which the capricious waves have thrown up
      to encourage them, the people of Aldborough have boldly established their
      quaint little watering-place. The first fragment of their earthly
      possessions is a low natural dike of shingle, surmounted by a public path
      which runs parallel with the sea. Bordering this path, in a broken, uneven
      line, are the villa residences of modern Aldborough&mdash;fanciful little
      houses, standing mostly in their own gardens, and possessing here and
      there, as horticultural ornaments, staring figure-heads of ships doing
      duty for statues among the flowers. Viewed from the low level on which
      these villas stand, the sea, in certain conditions of the atmosphere,
      appears to be higher than the land: coasting-vessels gliding by assume
      gigantic proportions, and look alarmingly near the windows. Intermixed
      with the houses of the better sort are buildings of other forms and
      periods. In one direction the tiny Gothic town-hall of old Aldborough&mdash;once
      the center of the vanished port and borough&mdash;now stands, fronting the
      modern villas close on the margin of the sea. At another point, a wooden
      tower of observation, crowned by the figure-head of a wrecked Russian
      vessel, rises high above the neighboring houses, and discloses through its
      scuttle-window grave men in dark clothing seated on the topmost story,
      perpetually on the watch&mdash;the pilots of Aldborough looking out from
      their tower for ships in want of help. Behind the row of buildings thus
      curiously intermingled runs the one straggling street of the town, with
      its sturdy pilots&rsquo; cottages, its mouldering marine store-houses, and its
      composite shops. Toward the northern end this street is bounded by the one
      eminence visible over all the marshy flat&mdash;a low wooded hill, on
      which the church is built. At its opposite extremity the street leads to a
      deserted martello tower, and to the forlorn outlying suburb of Slaughden,
      between the river Alde and the sea. Such are the main characteristics of
      this curious little outpost on the shores of England as it appears at the
      present time.
    </p>
    <p>
      On a hot and cloudy July afternoon, and on the second day which had
      elapsed since he had written to Magdalen, Captain Wragge sauntered through
      the gate of North Shingles Villa to meet the arrival of the coach, which
      then connected Aldborough with the Eastern Counties Railway. He reached
      the principal inn as the coach drove up, and was ready at the door to
      receive Magdalen and Mrs. Wragge, on their leaving the vehicle.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s reception of his wife was not characterized by an instant&rsquo;s
      unnecessary waste of time. He looked distrustfully at her shoes&mdash;raised
      himself on tiptoe&mdash;set her bonnet straight for her with a sharp tug&mdash;-said,
      in a loud whisper, &ldquo;hold your tongue&rdquo;&mdash;and left her, for the time
      being, without further notice. His welcome to Magdalen, beginning with the
      usual flow of words, stopped suddenly in the middle of the first sentence.
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s eye was a sharp one, and it instantly showed him
      something in the look and manner of his old pupil which denoted a serious
      change.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was a settled composure on her face which, except when she spoke,
      made it look as still and cold as marble. Her voice was softer and more
      equable, her eyes were steadier, her step was slower than of old. When she
      smiled, the smile came and went suddenly, and showed a little nervous
      contraction on one side of her mouth never visible there before. She was
      perfectly patient with Mrs. Wragge; she treated the captain with a
      courtesy and consideration entirely new in his experience of her&mdash;but
      she was interested in nothing. The curious little shops in the back
      street; the high impending sea; the old town-hall on the beach; the
      pilots, the fishermen, the passing ships&mdash;she noticed all these
      objects as indifferently as if Aldborough had been familiar to her from
      her infancy. Even when the captain drew up at the garden-gate of North
      Shingles, and introduced her triumphantly to the new house, she hardly
      looked at it. The first question she asked related not to her own
      residence, but to Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How near to us does he live?&rdquo; she inquired, with the only betrayal of
      emotion which had escaped her yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge answered by pointing to the fifth villa from North
      Shingles, on the Slaughden side of Aldborough. Magdalen suddenly drew back
      from the garden-gate as he indicated the situation, and walked away by
      herself to obtain a nearer view of the house. Captain Wragge looked after
      her, and shook his head, discontentedly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I speak now?&rdquo; inquired a meek voice behind him, articulating
      respectfully ten inches above the top of his straw hat.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain turned round, and confronted his wife. The more than ordinary
      bewilderment visible in her face at once suggested to him that Magdalen
      had failed to carry out the directions in his letter; and that Mrs. Wragge
      had arrived at Aldborough without being properly aware of the total
      transformation to be accomplished in her identity and her name. The
      necessity of setting this doubt at rest was too serious to be trifled
      with; and Captain Wragge instituted the necessary inquiries without a
      moment&rsquo;s delay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stand straight, and listen to me,&rdquo; he began. &ldquo;I have a question to ask
      you. Do you know whose Skin you are in at this moment? Do you know that
      you are dead and buried in London; and that you have risen like a phoenix
      from the ashes of Mrs. Wragge? No! you evidently don&rsquo;t know it. This is
      perfectly disgraceful. What is your name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Matilda,&rdquo; answered Mrs. Wragge, in a state of the densest bewilderment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing of the sort!&rdquo; cried the captain, fiercely. &ldquo;How dare you tell me
      your name&rsquo;s Matilda? Your name is Julia. Who am I?&mdash;Hold that basket
      of sandwiches straight, or I&rsquo;ll pitch it into the sea!&mdash;Who am I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, meekly taking refuge in the negative
      side of the question this time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Sit down!&rdquo; said her husband, pointing to the low garden wall of North
      Shingles Villa. &ldquo;More to the right! More still! That will do. You don&rsquo;t
      know?&rdquo; repeated the captain, sternly confronting his wife as soon as he
      had contrived, by seating her, to place her face on a level with his own.
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t let me hear you say that a second time. Don&rsquo;t let me have a woman
      who doesn&rsquo;t know who I am to operate on my beard to-morrow morning. Look
      at me! More to the left&mdash;more still&mdash;that will do. Who am I? I&rsquo;m
      Mr. Bygrave&mdash;Christian name, Thomas. Who are you? You&rsquo;re Mrs. Bygrave&mdash;Christian
      name, Julia. Who is that young lady who traveled with you from London?
      That young lady is Miss Bygrave&mdash;Christian name, Susan. I&rsquo;m her
      clever uncle Tom; and you&rsquo;re her addle-headed aunt Julia. Say it all over
      to me instantly, like the Catechism! What is your name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Spare my poor head!&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Oh, please spare my poor head
      till I&rsquo;ve got the stage-coach out of it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t distress her,&rdquo; said Magdalen, joining them at that moment. &ldquo;She
      will learn it in time. Come into the house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge shook his wary head once more. &ldquo;We are beginning badly,&rdquo; he
      said, with less politeness than usual. &ldquo;My wife&rsquo;s stupidity stands in our
      way already.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They went into the house. Magdalen was perfectly satisfied with all the
      captain&rsquo;s arrangements; she accepted the room which he had set apart for
      her; approved of the woman servant whom he had engaged; presented herself
      at tea-time the moment she was summoned but still showed no interest
      whatever in the new scene around her. Soon after the table was cleared,
      although the daylight had not yet faded out, Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s customary
      drowsiness after fatigue of any kind overcame her, and she received her
      husband&rsquo;s orders to leave the room (taking care that she left it &ldquo;up at
      heel&rdquo;), and to betake herself (strictly in the character of Mrs. Bygrave)
      to bed. As soon as they were left alone, the captain looked hard at
      Magdalen, and waited to be spoken to. She said nothing. He ventured next
      on opening the conversation by a polite inquiry after the state of her
      health. &ldquo;You look fatigued,&rdquo; he remarked, in his most insinuating manner.
      &ldquo;I am afraid the journey has been too much for you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said, looking out listlessly through the window; &ldquo;I am not more
      tired than usual. I am always weary now; weary at going to bed, weary at
      getting up. If you would like to hear what I have to say to you to-night,
      I am willing and ready to say it. Can&rsquo;t we go out? It is very hot here;
      and the droning of those men&rsquo;s voices is beyond all endurance.&rdquo; She
      pointed through the window to a group of boatmen idling, as only nautical
      men can idle, against the garden wall. &ldquo;Is there no quiet walk in this
      wretched place?&rdquo; she asked, impatiently. &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t we breathe a little fresh
      air, and escape being annoyed by strangers?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is perfect solitude within half an hour&rsquo;s walk of the house,&rdquo;
       replied the ready captain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well. Come out, then.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With a weary sigh she took up her straw bonnet and her light muslin scarf
      from the side-table upon which she had thrown them on coming in, and
      carelessly led the way to the door. Captain Wragge followed her to the
      garden gate, then stopped, struck by a new idea.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me,&rdquo; he whispered, confidentially. &ldquo;In my wife&rsquo;s existing state of
      ignorance as to who she is, we had better not trust her alone in the house
      with a new servant. I&rsquo;ll privately turn the key on her, in case she wakes
      before we come back. Safe bind, safe find&mdash;you know the proverb!&mdash;I
      will be with you again in a moment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He hastened back to the house, and Magdalen seated herself on the garden
      wall to await his return.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had hardly settled herself in that position when two gentlemen walking
      together, whose approach along the public path she had not previously
      noticed, passed close by her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The dress of one of the two strangers showed him to be a clergyman. His
      companion&rsquo;s station in life was less easily discernible to ordinary
      observation. Practiced eyes would probably have seen enough in his look,
      his manner, and his walk to show that he was a sailor. He was a man in the
      prime of life; tall, spare, and muscular; his face sun-burned to a deep
      brown; his black hair just turning gray; his eyes dark, deep and firm&mdash;the
      eyes of a man with an iron resolution and a habit of command. He was the
      nearest of the two to Magdalen, as he and his friend passed the place
      where she was sitting; and he looked at her with a sudden surprise at her
      beauty, with an open, hearty, undisguised admiration, which was too
      evidently sincere, too evidently beyond his own control, to be justly
      resented as insolent; and yet, in her humor at that moment, Magdalen did
      resent it. She felt the man&rsquo;s resolute black eyes strike through her with
      an electric suddenness; and frowning at him impatiently, she turned away
      her head and looked back at the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next moment she glanced round again to see if he had gone on. He had
      advanced a few yards&mdash;had then evidently stopped&mdash;and was now in
      the very act of turning to look at her once more. His companion, the
      clergyman, noticing that Magdalen appeared to be annoyed, took him
      familiarly by the arm, and, half in jest, half in earnest, forced him to
      walk on. The two disappeared round the corner of the next house. As they
      turned it, the sun-burned sailor twice stopped his companion again, and
      twice looked back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A friend of yours?&rdquo; inquired Captain Wragge, joining Magdalen at that
      moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not,&rdquo; she replied; &ldquo;a perfect stranger. He stared at me in the
      most impertinent manner. Does he belong to this place?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll find out in a moment,&rdquo; said the compliant captain, joining the group
      of boatmen, and putting his questions right and left, with the easy
      familiarity which distinguished him. He returned in a few minutes with a
      complete budget of information. The clergyman was well known as the rector
      of a place situated some few miles inland. The dark man with him was his
      wife&rsquo;s brother, commander of a ship in the merchant-service. He was
      supposed to be staying with his relatives, as their guest for a short time
      only, preparatory to sailing on another voyage. The clergyman&rsquo;s name was
      Strickland, and the merchant-captain&rsquo;s name was Kirke; and that was all
      the boatmen knew about either of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is of no consequence who they are,&rdquo; said Magdalen, carelessly. &ldquo;The
      man&rsquo;s rudeness merely annoyed me for the moment. Let us have done with
      him. I have something else to think of, and so have you. Where is the
      solitary walk you mentioned just now? Which way do we go?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain pointed southward toward Slaughden, and offered his arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen hesitated before she took it. Her eyes wandered away inquiringly
      to Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s house. He was out in the garden, pacing backward and
      forward over the little lawn, with his head high in the air, and with Mrs.
      Lecount demurely in attendance on him, carrying her master&rsquo;s green fan.
      Seeing this, Magdalen at once took Captain Wragge&rsquo;s right arm, so as to
      place herself nearest to the garden when they passed it on their walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The eyes of our neighbors are on us; and the least your niece can do is
      to take your arm,&rdquo; she said, with a bitter laugh. &ldquo;Come! let us go on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They are looking this way,&rdquo; whispered the captain. &ldquo;Shall I introduce you
      to Mrs. Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not to-night,&rdquo; she answered. &ldquo;Wait, and hear what I have to say to you
      first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They passed the garden wall. Captain Wragge took off his hat with a smart
      flourish, and received a gracious bow from Mrs. Lecount in return.
      Magdalen saw the housekeeper survey her face, her figure, and her dress,
      with that reluctant interest, that distrustful curiosity, which women feel
      in observing each other. As she walked on beyond the house, the sharp
      voice of Noel Vanstone reached her through the evening stillness. &ldquo;A fine
      girl, Lecount,&rdquo; she heard him say. &ldquo;You know I am a judge of that sort of
      thing&mdash;a fine girl!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As those words were spoken, Captain Wragge looked round at his companion
      in sudden surprise. Her hand was trembling violently on his arm, and her
      lips were fast closed with an expression of speechless pain.
    </p>
    <p>
      Slowly and in silence the two walked on until they reached the southern
      limit of the houses, and entered on a little wilderness of shingle and
      withered grass&mdash;the desolate end of Aldborough, the lonely beginning
      of Slaughden.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a dull, airless evening. Eastward, was the gray majesty of the sea,
      hushed in breathless calm; the horizon line invisibly melting into the
      monotonous, misty sky; the idle ships shadowy and still on the idle water.
      Southward, the high ridge of the sea dike, and the grim, massive circle of
      a martello tower reared high on its mound of grass, closed the view darkly
      on all that lay beyond. Westward, a lurid streak of sunset glowed red in
      the dreary heaven, blackened the fringing trees on the far borders of the
      great inland marsh, and turned its little gleaming water-pools to pools of
      blood. Nearer to the eye, the sullen flow of the tidal river Alde ebbed
      noiselessly from the muddy banks; and nearer still, lonely and
      unprosperous by the bleak water-side, lay the lost little port of
      Slaughden, with its forlorn wharfs and warehouses of decaying wood, and
      its few scattered coasting-vessels deserted on the oozy river-shore. No
      fall of waves was heard on the beach, no trickling of waters bubbled
      audibly from the idle stream. Now and then the cry of a sea-bird rose from
      the region of the marsh; and at intervals, from farmhouses far in the
      inland waste, the faint winding of horns to call the cattle home traveled
      mournfully through the evening calm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen drew her hand from the captain&rsquo;s arm, and led the way to the
      mound of the martello tower. &ldquo;I am weary of walking,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Let us
      stop and rest here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She seated herself on the slope, and resting on her elbow, mechanically
      pulled up and scattered from her into the air the tufts of grass growing
      under her hand. After silently occupying herself in this way for some
      minutes, she turned suddenly on Captain Wragge. &ldquo;Do I surprise you?&rdquo; she
      asked, with a startling abruptness. &ldquo;Do you find me changed?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s ready tact warned him that the time had come to be plain
      with her, and to reserve his flowers of speech for a more appropriate
      occasion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you ask the question, I must answer it,&rdquo; he replied. &ldquo;Yes, I do find
      you changed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She pulled up another tuft of grass. &ldquo;I suppose you can guess the reason?&rdquo;
       she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain was wisely silent. He only answered by a bow.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have lost all care for myself,&rdquo; she went on, tearing faster and faster
      at the tufts of grass. &ldquo;Saying that is not saying much, perhaps, but it
      may help you to understand me. There are things I would have died sooner
      than do at one time&mdash;things it would have turned me cold to think of.
      I don&rsquo;t care now whether I do them or not. I am nothing to myself; I am no
      more interested in myself than I am in these handfuls of grass. I suppose
      I have lost something. What is it? Heart? Conscience? I don&rsquo;t know. Do
      you? What nonsense I am talking! Who cares what I have lost? It has gone;
      and there&rsquo;s an end of it. I suppose my outside is the best side of me&mdash;and
      that&rsquo;s left, at any rate. I have not lost my good looks, have I? There!
      there! never mind answering; don&rsquo;t trouble yourself to pay me compliments.
      I have been admired enough to-day. First the sailor, and then Mr. Noel
      Vanstone&mdash;enough for any woman&rsquo;s vanity, surely! Have I any right to
      call myself a woman? Perhaps not: I am only a girl in my teens. Oh, me, I
      feel as if I was forty!&rdquo; She scattered the last fragments of grass to the
      winds; and turning her back on the captain, let her head droop till her
      cheek touched the turf bank. &ldquo;It feels soft and friendly,&rdquo; she said,
      nestling to it with a hopeless tenderness horrible to see. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t
      cast me off. Mother Earth! The only mother I have left!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge looked at her in silent surprise. Such experience of
      humanity as he possessed was powerless to sound to its depths the terrible
      self-abandonment which had burst its way to the surface in her reckless
      words&mdash;which was now fast hurrying her to actions more reckless
      still. &ldquo;Devilish odd!&rdquo; he thought to himself, uneasily. &ldquo;Has the loss of
      her lover turned her brain?&rdquo; He considered for a minute longer and then
      spoke to her. &ldquo;Leave it till to-morrow,&rdquo; suggested the captain
      confidentially. &ldquo;You are a little tired to-night. No hurry, my dear girl&mdash;no
      hurry.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She raised her head instantly, and looked round at him with the same angry
      resolution, with the same desperate defiance of herself, which he had seen
      in her face on the memorable day at York when she had acted before him for
      the first time. &ldquo;I came here to tell you what is in my mind,&rdquo; she said;
      &ldquo;and I <i>will</i> tell it!&rdquo; She seated herself upright on the slope; and
      clasping her hands round her knees, looked out steadily, straight before
      her, at the slowly darkening view. In that strange position, she waited
      until she had composed herself, and then addressed the captain, without
      turning her head to look round at him, in these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you and I first met,&rdquo; she began, abruptly, &ldquo;I tried hard to keep my
      thoughts to myself. I know enough by this time to know that I failed. When
      I first told you at York that Michael Vanstone had ruined us, I believe
      you guessed for yourself that I, for one, was determined not to submit to
      it. Whether you guessed or not, it is so. I left my friends with that
      determination in my mind; and I feel it in me now stronger, ten times
      stronger, than ever.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ten times stronger than ever,&rdquo; echoed the captain. &ldquo;Exactly so&mdash;the
      natural result of firmness of character.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No&mdash;the natural result of having nothing else to think of. I had
      something else to think of before you found me ill in Vauxhall Walk. I
      have nothing else to think of now. Remember that, if you find me for the
      future always harping on the same string. One question first. Did you
      guess what I meant to do on that morning when you showed me the newspaper,
      and when I read the account of Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s death?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Generally,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge&mdash;&ldquo;I guessed, generally, that you
      proposed dipping your hand into his purse and taking from it (most
      properly) what was your own. I felt deeply hurt at the time by your not
      permitting me to assist you. Why is she so reserved with me? (I remarked
      to myself)&mdash;why is she so unreasonably reserved?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall have no reserve to complain of now,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen. &ldquo;I tell
      you plainly, if events had not happened as they did, you <i>would</i> have
      assisted me. If Michael Vanstone had not died, I should have gone to
      Brighton, and have found my way safely to his acquaintance under an
      assumed name. I had money enough with me to live on respectably for many
      months together. I would have employed that time&mdash;I would have waited
      a whole year, if necessary, to destroy Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s influence over him&mdash;and
      I would have ended by getting that influence, on my own terms, into my own
      hands. I had the advantage of years, the advantage of novelty, the
      advantage of downright desperation, all on my side, and I should have
      succeeded. Before the year was out&mdash;before half the year was out&mdash;you
      should have seen Mrs. Lecount dismissed by her master, and you should have
      seen me taken into the house in her place, as Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s adopted
      daughter&mdash;as the faithful friend&mdash;who had saved him from an
      adventuress in his old age. Girls no older than I am have tried deceptions
      as hopeless in appearance as mine, and have carried them through to the
      end. I had my story ready; I had my plans all considered; I had the weak
      point in that old man to attack in my way, which Mrs. Lecount had found
      out before me to attack in hers, and I tell you again I should have
      succeeded.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think you would,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;And what next?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Michael Vanstone would have changed his man of business next. You
      would have succeeded to the place; and those clever speculations on which
      he was so fond of venturing would have cost him the fortunes of which he
      had robbed my sister and myself. To the last farthing, Captain Wragge, as
      certainly as you sit there, to the last farthing! A bold conspiracy, a
      shocking deception&mdash;wasn&rsquo;t it? I don&rsquo;t care! Any conspiracy, any
      deception, is justified to my conscience by the vile law which has left us
      helpless. You talked of my reserve just now. Have I dropped it at last?
      Have I spoken out at the eleventh hour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain laid his hand solemnly on his heart, and launched himself once
      more on his broadest flow of language.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You fill me with unavailing regret,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;If that old man had lived,
      what a crop I might have reaped from him! What enormous transactions in
      moral agriculture it might have been my privilege to carry on! <i>Ars
      longa,</i>&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, pathetically drifting into Latin&mdash;&ldquo;<i>vita
      brevis!</i> Let us drop a tear on the lost opportunities of the past, and
      try what the present can do to console us. One conclusion is clear to my
      mind&mdash;the experiment you proposed to try with Mr. Michael Vanstone is
      totally hopeless, my dear girl, in the case of his son. His son is
      impervious to all common forms of pecuniary temptation. You may trust my
      solemn assurance,&rdquo; continued the captain, speaking with an indignant
      recollection of the answer to his advertisement in the Times, &ldquo;when I
      inform you that Mr. Noel Vanstone is emphatically the meanest of mankind.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can trust my own experience as well,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I have seen him,
      and spoken to him&mdash;I know him better than you do. Another disclosure,
      Captain Wragge, for your private ear! I sent you back certain articles of
      costume when they had served the purpose for which I took them to London.
      That purpose was to find my way to Noel Vanstone in disguise, and to judge
      for myself of Mrs. Lecount and her master. I gained my object; and I tell
      you again, I know the two people in that house yonder whom we have now to
      deal with better than you do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge expressed the profound astonishment, and asked the innocent
      questions appropriate to the mental condition of a person taken completely
      by surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well,&rdquo; he resumed, when Magdalen had briefly answered him, &ldquo;and what is
      the result on your own mind? There must be a result, or we should not be
      here. You see your way? Of course, my dear girl, you see your way?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she said, quickly. &ldquo;I see my way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain drew a little nearer to her, with eager curiosity expressed in
      every line of his vagabond face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go on,&rdquo; he said, in an anxious whisper; &ldquo;pray go on.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked out thoughtfully into the gathering darkness, without
      answering, without appearing to have heard him. Her lips closed, and her
      clasped hands tightened mechanically round her knees.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no disguising the fact,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, warily rousing her
      into speaking to him. &ldquo;The son is harder to deal with than the father&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not in my way,&rdquo; she interposed, suddenly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Indeed!&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Well! they say there is a short cut to
      everything, if we only look long enough to find it. You have looked long
      enough, I suppose, and the natural result has followed&mdash;you have
      found it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have not troubled myself to look; I have found it without looking.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The deuce you have!&rdquo; cried Captain Wragge, in great perplexity. &ldquo;My dear
      girl, is my view of your present position leading me altogether astray? As
      I understand it, here is Mr. Noel Vanstone in possession of your fortune
      and your sister&rsquo;s, as his father was, and determined to keep it, as his
      father was?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And here are you&mdash;quite helpless to get it by persuasion&mdash;quite
      helpless to get it by law&mdash;just as resolute in his ease as you were
      in his father&rsquo;s, to take it by stratagem in spite of him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just as resolute. Not for the sake of the fortune&mdash;mind that! For
      the sake of the right.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Just so. And the means of coming at that right which were hard with the
      father&mdash;who was not a miser&mdash;are easy with the son, who is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perfectly easy.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Write me down an Ass for the first time in my life!&rdquo; cried the captain,
      at the end of his patience. &ldquo;Hang me if I know what you mean!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked round at him for the first time&mdash;looked him straight and
      steadily in the face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will tell you what I mean,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I mean to marry him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge started up on his knees, and stopped on them, petrified by
      astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Remember what I told you,&rdquo; said Magdalen, looking away from him again. &ldquo;I
      have lost all care for myself. I have only one end in life now, and the
      sooner I reach it&mdash;and die&mdash;the better. If&mdash;&rdquo; She stopped,
      altered her position a little, and pointed with one hand to the
      fast-ebbing stream beneath her, gleaming dim in the darkening twilight&mdash;&ldquo;if
      I had been what I once was, I would have thrown myself into that river
      sooner than do what I am going to do now. As it is, I trouble myself no
      longer; I weary my mind with no more schemes. The short way and the vile
      way lies before me. I take it, Captain Wragge, and marry him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Keeping him in total ignorance of who you are?&rdquo; said the captain, slowly
      rising to his feet, and slowly moving round, so as to see her face.
      &ldquo;Marrying him as my niece, Miss Bygrave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As your niece, Miss Bygrave.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And after the marriage&mdash;?&rdquo; His voice faltered, as he began the
      question, and he left it unfinished.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After the marriage,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I shall stand in no further need of your
      assistance.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain stooped as she gave him that answer, looked close at her, and
      suddenly drew back, without uttering a word. He walked away some paces,
      and sat down again doggedly on the grass. If Magdalen could have seen his
      face in the dying light, his face would have startled her. For the first
      time, probably, since his boyhood, Captain Wragge had changed color. He
      was deadly pale.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you nothing to say to me?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Perhaps you are waiting to
      hear what terms I have to offer? These are my terms; I pay all our
      expenses here; and when we part, on the day of the marriage, you take a
      farewell gift away with you of two hundred pounds. Do you promise me your
      assistance on those conditions?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What am I expected to do?&rdquo; he asked, with a furtive glance at her, and a
      sudden distrust in his voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are expected to preserve my assumed character and your own,&rdquo; she
      answered, &ldquo;and you are to prevent any inquiries of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s from
      discovering who I really am. I ask no more. The rest is my responsibility&mdash;not
      yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have nothing to do with what happens&mdash;at any time, or in any place&mdash;after
      the marriage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing whatever.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I may leave you at the church door if I please?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At the church door, with your fee in your pocket.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Paid from the money in your own possession?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly! How else should I pay it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge took off his hat, and passed his handkerchief over his face
      with an air of relief.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Give me a minute to consider it,&rdquo; he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As many minutes as you like,&rdquo; she rejoined, reclining on the bank in her
      former position, and returning to her former occupation of tearing up the
      tufts of grass and flinging them out into the air.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s reflections were not complicated by any unnecessary
      divergences from the contemplation of his own position to the
      contemplation of Magdalen&rsquo;s. Utterly incapable of appreciating the injury
      done her by Frank&rsquo;s infamous treachery to his engagement&mdash;an injury
      which had severed her, at one cruel blow, from the aspiration which,
      delusion though it was, had been the saving aspiration of her life&mdash;Captain
      Wragge accepted the simple fact of her despair just as he found it, and
      then looked straight to the consequences of the proposal which she had
      made to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the prospect <i>before</i> the marriage he saw nothing more serious
      involved than the practice of a deception, in no important degree
      different&mdash;except in the end to be attained by it&mdash;from the
      deceptions which his vagabond life had long since accustomed him to
      contemplate and to carry out. In the prospect <i>after</i> the marriage he
      dimly discerned, through the ominous darkness of the future, the lurking
      phantoms of Terror and Crime, and the black gulfs behind them of Ruin and
      Death. A man of boundless audacity and resource, within his own mean
      limits; beyond those limits, the captain was as deferentially submissive
      to the majesty of the law as the most harmless man in existence; as
      cautious in looking after his own personal safety as the veriest coward
      that ever walked the earth. But one serious question now filled his mind.
      Could he, on the terms proposed to him, join the conspiracy against Noel
      Vanstone up to the point of the marriage, and then withdraw from it,
      without risk of involving himself in the consequences which his experience
      told him must certainly ensue?
    </p>
    <p>
      Strange as it may seem, his decision in this emergency was mainly
      influenced by no less a person than Noel Vanstone himself. The captain
      might have resisted the money-offer which Magdalen had made to him&mdash;for
      the profits of the Entertainment had filled his pockets with more than
      three times two hundred pounds. But the prospect of dealing a blow in the
      dark at the man who had estimated his information and himself at the value
      of a five pound note proved too much for his caution and his self-control.
      On the small neutral ground of self-importance, the best men and the worst
      meet on the same terms. Captain Wragge&rsquo;s indignation, when he saw the
      answer to his advertisement, stooped to no retrospective estimate of his
      own conduct; he was as deeply offended, as sincerely angry as if he had
      made a perfectly honorable proposal, and had been rewarded for it by a
      personal insult. He had been too full of his own grievance to keep it out
      of his first letter to Magdalen. He had more or less forgotten himself on
      every subsequent occasion when Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s name was mentioned. And in
      now finally deciding the course he should take, it is not too much to say
      that the motive of money receded, for the first time in his life, into the
      second place, and the motive of malice carried the day.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I accept the terms,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, getting briskly on his legs
      again. &ldquo;Subject, of course, to the conditions agreed on between us. We
      part on the wedding-day. I don&rsquo;t ask where you go: you don&rsquo;t ask where I
      go. From that time forth we are strangers to each other.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen rose slowly from the mound. A hopeless depression, a sullen
      despair, showed itself in her look and manner. She refused the captain&rsquo;s
      offered hand; and her tones, when she answered him, were so low that he
      could hardly hear her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We understand each other,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;and we can now go back. You may
      introduce me to Mrs. Lecount to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must ask a few questions first,&rdquo; said the captain, gravely. &ldquo;There are
      more risks to be run in this matter, and more pitfalls in our way, than
      you seem to suppose. I must know the whole history of your morning call on
      Mrs. Lecount before I put you and that woman on speaking terms with each
      other.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait till to-morrow,&rdquo; she broke out impatiently. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t madden me by
      talking about it to-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain said no more. They turned their faces toward Aldborough, and
      walked slowly back.
    </p>
    <p>
      By the time they reached the houses night had overtaken them. Neither moon
      nor stars were visible. A faint noiseless breeze blowing from the land had
      come with the darkness. Magdalen paused on the lonely public walk to
      breathe the air more freely. After a while she turned her face from the
      breeze and looked out toward the sea. The immeasurable silence of the calm
      waters, lost in the black void of night, was awful. She stood looking into
      the darkness, as if its mystery had no secrets for her&mdash;she advanced
      toward it slowly, as if it drew her by some hidden attraction into itself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am going down to the sea,&rdquo; she said to her companion. &ldquo;Wait here, and I
      will come back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He lost sight of her in an instant; it was as if the night had swallowed
      her up. He listened, and counted her footsteps by the crashing of them on
      the shingle in the deep stillness. They retreated slowly, further and
      further away into the night. Suddenly the sound of them ceased. Had she
      paused on her course or had she reached one of the strips of sand left
      bare by the ebbing tide?
    </p>
    <p>
      He waited, and listened anxiously. The time passed, and no sound reached
      him. He still listened, with a growing distrust of the darkness. Another
      moment, and there came a sound from the invisible shore. Far and faint
      from the beach below, a long cry moaned through the silence. Then all was
      still once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      In sudden alarm, he stepped forward to descend to the beach, and to call
      to her. Before he could cross the path, footsteps rapidly advancing caught
      his ear. He waited an instant, and the figure of a man passed quickly
      along the walk between him and the sea. It was too dark to discern
      anything of the stranger&rsquo;s face; it was only possible to see that he was a
      tall man&mdash;as tall as that officer in the merchant-service whose name
      was Kirke.
    </p>
    <p>
      The figure passed on northward, and was instantly lost to view. Captain
      Wragge crossed the path, and, advancing a few steps down the beach,
      stopped and listened again. The crash of footsteps on the shingle caught
      his ear once more. Slowly, as the sound had left him, that sound now came
      back. He called, to guide her to him. She came on till he could just see
      her&mdash;a shadow ascending the shingly slope, and growing out of the
      blackness of the night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You alarmed me,&rdquo; he whispered, nervously. &ldquo;I was afraid something had
      happened. I heard you cry out as if you were in pain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you?&rdquo; she said, carelessly. &ldquo;I <i>was</i> in pain. It doesn&rsquo;t matter&mdash;it&rsquo;s
      over now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her hand mechanically swung something to and fro as she answered him. It
      was the little white silk bag which she had always kept hidden in her
      bosom up to this time. One of the relics which it held&mdash;one of the
      relics which she had not had the heart to part with before&mdash;was gone
      from its keeping forever. Alone, on a strange shore, she had torn from her
      the fondest of her virgin memories, the dearest of her virgin hopes.
      Alone, on a strange shore, she had taken the lock of Frank&rsquo;s hair from its
      once-treasured place, and had cast it away from her to the sea and the
      night.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE tall man who had passed Captain Wragge in the dark proceeded rapidly
      along the public walk, struck off across a little waste patch of ground,
      and entered the open door of the Aldborough Hotel. The light in the
      passage, falling full on his face as he passed it, proved the truth of
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s surmise, and showed the stranger to be Mr. Kirke, of the
      merchant service.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meeting the landlord in the passage, Mr. Kirke nodded to him with the
      familiarity of an old customer. &ldquo;Have you got the paper?&rdquo; he asked; &ldquo;I
      want to look at the visitors&rsquo; list.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have got it in my room, sir,&rdquo; said the landlord, leading the way into a
      parlor at the back of the house. &ldquo;Are there any friends of yours staying
      here, do you think?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Without replying, the seaman turned to the list as soon as the newspaper
      was placed in his hand, and ran his finger down it, name by name. The
      finger suddenly stopped at this line: &ldquo;Sea-view Cottage; Mr. Noel
      Vanstone.&rdquo; Kirke of the merchant-service repeated the name to himself, and
      put down the paper thoughtfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you found anybody you know, captain?&rdquo; asked the landlord.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have found a name I know&mdash;a name my father used often to speak of
      in his time. Is this Mr. Vanstone a family man? Do you know if there is a
      young lady in the house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t say, captain. My wife will be here directly; she is sure to know.
      It must have been some time ago, if your father knew this Mr. Vanstone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It <i>was</i> some time ago. My father knew a subaltern officer of that
      name when he was with his regiment in Canada. It would be curious if the
      person here turned out to be the same man, and if that young lady was his
      daughter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, captain&mdash;but the young lady seems to hang a little on
      your mind,&rdquo; said the landlord, with a pleasant smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kirke looked as if the form which his host&rsquo;s good-humor had just taken
      was not quite to his mind. He returned abruptly to the subaltern officer
      and the regiment in Canada. &ldquo;That poor fellow&rsquo;s story was as miserable a
      one as ever I heard,&rdquo; he said, looking back again absently at the
      visitors&rsquo; list.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would there be any harm in telling it, sir?&rdquo; asked the landlord.
      &ldquo;Miserable or not, a story&rsquo;s a story, when you know it to be true.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kirke hesitated. &ldquo;I hardly think I should be doing right to tell it,&rdquo;
       he said. &ldquo;If this man, or any relations of his, are still alive, it is not
      a story they might like strangers to know. All I can tell you is, that my
      father was the salvation of that young officer under very dreadful
      circumstances. They parted in Canada. My father remained with his
      regiment; the young officer sold out and returned to England, and from
      that moment they lost sight of each other. It would be curious if this
      Vanstone here was the same man. It would be curious&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He suddenly checked himself just as another reference to &ldquo;the young lady&rdquo;
       was on the point of passing his lips. At the same moment the landlord&rsquo;s
      wife came in, and Mr. Kirke at once transferred his inquiries to the
      higher authority in the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you know anything of this Mr. Vanstone who is down here on the
      visitors&rsquo; list?&rdquo; asked the sailor. &ldquo;Is he an old man?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He&rsquo;s a miserable little creature to look at,&rdquo; replied the landlady; &ldquo;but
      he&rsquo;s not old, captain.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then he&rsquo;s not the man I mean. Perhaps he is the man&rsquo;s son? Has he got any
      ladies with him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The landlady tossed her head, and pursed up her lips disparagingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He has a housekeeper with him,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;A middle-aged person&mdash;not
      one of my sort. I dare say I&rsquo;m wrong&mdash;but I don&rsquo;t like a dressy woman
      in her station of life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Kirke began to look puzzled. &ldquo;I must have made some mistake about the
      house,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Surely there&rsquo;s a lawn cut octagon-shape at Sea-view
      Cottage, and a white flag-staff in the middle of the gravel-walk?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s not Sea-view, sir! It&rsquo;s North Shingles you&rsquo;re talking of. Mr.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s. His wife and his niece came here by the coach to-day. His
      wife&rsquo;s tall enough to be put in a show, and the worst-dressed woman I ever
      set eyes on. But Miss Bygrave is worth looking at, if I may venture to say
      so. She&rsquo;s the finest girl, to my mind, we&rsquo;ve had at Aldborough for many a
      long day. I wonder who they are! Do you know the name, captain?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Mr. Kirke, with a shade of disappointment on his dark,
      weather-beaten face; &ldquo;I never heard the name before.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After replying in those words, he rose to take his leave. The landlord
      vainly invited him to drink a parting glass; the landlady vainly pressed
      him to stay another ten minutes and try a cup of tea. He only replied that
      his sister expected him, and that he must return to the parsonage
      immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      On leaving the hotel Mr. Kirke set his face westward, and walked inland
      along the highroad as fast as the darkness would let him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bygrave?&rdquo; he thought to himself. &ldquo;Now I know her name, how much am I the
      wiser for it! If it had been Vanstone, my father&rsquo;s son might have had a
      chance of making acquaintance with her.&rdquo; He stopped, and looked back in
      the direction of Aldborough. &ldquo;What a fool I am!&rdquo; he burst out suddenly,
      striking his stick on the ground. &ldquo;I was forty last birthday.&rdquo; He turned
      and went on again faster than ever&mdash;his head down; his resolute black
      eyes searching the darkness on the land as they had searched it many a
      time on the sea from the deck of his ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      After more than an hour&rsquo;s walking he reached a village, with a primitive
      little church and parsonage nestled together in a hollow. He entered the
      house by the back way, and found his sister, the clergyman&rsquo;s wife, sitting
      alone over her work in the parlor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where is your husband, Lizzie?&rdquo; he asked, taking a chair in a corner.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;William has gone out to see a sick person. He had just time enough before
      he went,&rdquo; she added, with a smile, &ldquo;to tell me about the young lady; and
      he declares he will never trust himself at Aldborough with you again until
      you are a steady, married man.&rdquo; She stopped, and looked at her brother
      more attentively than she had looked at him yet. &ldquo;Robert!&rdquo; she said,
      laying aside her work, and suddenly crossing the room to him. &ldquo;You look
      anxious, you look distressed. William only laughed about your meeting with
      the young lady. Is it serious? Tell me; what is she like?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He turned his head away at the question.
    </p>
    <p>
      She took a stool at his feet, and persisted in looking up at him. &ldquo;Is it
      serious, Robert?&rdquo; she repeated, softly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Kirke&rsquo;s weather-beaten face was accustomed to no concealments&mdash;it
      answered for him before he spoke a word. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t tell your husband till I
      am gone,&rdquo; he said, with a roughness quite new in his sister&rsquo;s experience
      of him. &ldquo;I know I only deserve to be laughed at; but it hurts me, for all
      that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hurts you?&rdquo; she repeated, in astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t think me half such a fool, Lizzie, as I think myself,&rdquo; pursued
      Kirke, bitterly. &ldquo;A man at my age ought to know better. I didn&rsquo;t set eyes
      on her for as much as a minute altogether; and there I have been hanging
      about the place till after nightfall on the chance of seeing her again&mdash;skulking,
      I should have called it, if I had found one of my men doing what I have
      been doing myself. I believe I&rsquo;m bewitched. She&rsquo;s a mere girl, Lizzie&mdash;I
      doubt if she&rsquo;s out of her teens&mdash;I&rsquo;m old enough to be her father.
      It&rsquo;s all one; she stops in my mind in spite of me. I&rsquo;ve had her face
      looking at me, through the pitch darkness, every step of the way to this
      house; and it&rsquo;s looking at me now&mdash;as plain as I see yours, and
      plainer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He rose impatiently, and began to walk backward and forward in the room.
      His sister looked after him, with surprise as well as sympathy expressed
      in her face. From his boyhood upward she had always been accustomed to see
      him master of himself. Years since, in the failing fortunes of the family,
      he had been their example and their support. She had heard of him in the
      desperate emergencies of a life at sea, when hundreds of his
      fellow-creatures had looked to his steady self-possession for rescue from
      close-threatening death&mdash;and had not looked in vain. Never, in all
      her life before, had his sister seen the balance of that calm and equal
      mind lost as she saw it lost now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How can you talk so unreasonably about your age and yourself?&rdquo; she said.
      &ldquo;There is not a woman alive, Robert, who is good enough for you. What is
      her name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bygrave. Do you know it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. But I might soon make acquaintance with her. If we only had a little
      time before us; if I could only get to Aldborough and see her&mdash;but
      you are going away to-morrow; your ship sails at the end of the week.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank God for that!&rdquo; said Kirke, fervently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you glad to be going away?&rdquo; she asked, more and more amazed at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Right glad, Lizzie, for my own sake. If I ever get to my senses again, I
      shall find my way back to them on the deck of my ship. This girl has got
      between me and my thoughts already: she shan&rsquo;t go a step further, and get
      between me and my duty. I&rsquo;m determined on that. Fool as I am, I have sense
      enough left not to trust myself within easy hail of Aldborough to-morrow
      morning. I&rsquo;m good for another twenty miles of walking, and I&rsquo;ll begin my
      journey back tonight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His sister started up, and caught him fast by the arm. &ldquo;Robert!&rdquo; she
      exclaimed; &ldquo;you&rsquo;re not serious? You don&rsquo;t mean to leave us on foot, alone
      in the dark?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s only saying good-by, my dear, the last thing at night instead of the
      first thing in the morning,&rdquo; he answered, with a smile. &ldquo;Try and make
      allowances for me, Lizzie. My life has been passed at sea; and I&rsquo;m not
      used to having my mind upset in this way. Men ashore are used to it; men
      ashore can take it easy. I can&rsquo;t. If I stopped here I shouldn&rsquo;t rest. If I
      waited till to-morrow, I should only be going back to have another look at
      her. I don&rsquo;t want to feel more ashamed of myself than I do already. I want
      to fight my way back to my duty and myself, without stopping to think
      twice about it. Darkness is nothing to me&mdash;I&rsquo;m used to darkness. I
      have got the high-road to walk on, and I can&rsquo;t lose my way. Let me go,
      Lizzie! The only sweetheart I have any business with at my age is my ship.
      Let me get back to her!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His sister still kept her hold of his arm, and still pleaded with him to
      stay till the morning. He listened to her with perfect patience and
      kindness, but she never shook his determination for an instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What am I to say to William?&rdquo; she pleaded. &ldquo;What will he think when he
      comes back and finds you gone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell him I have taken the advice he gave us in his sermon last Sunday.
      Say I have turned my back on the world, the flesh, and the devil.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How can you talk so, Robert! And the boys, too&mdash;you promised not to
      go without bidding the boys good-by.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s true. I made my little nephews a promise, and I&rsquo;ll keep it.&rdquo; He
      kicked off his shoes as he spoke, on the mat outside the door. &ldquo;Light me
      upstairs, Lizzie; I&rsquo;ll bid the two boys good-by without waking them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She saw the uselessness of resisting him any longer; and, taking the
      candle, went before him upstairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      The boys&mdash;both young children&mdash;were sleeping together in the
      same bed. The youngest was his uncle&rsquo;s favorite, and was called by his
      uncle&rsquo;s name. He lay peacefully asleep, with a rough little toy ship
      hugged fast in his arms. Kirke&rsquo;s eyes softened as he stole on tiptoe to
      the child&rsquo;s side, and kissed him with the gentleness of a woman. &ldquo;Poor
      little man!&rdquo; said the sailor, tenderly. &ldquo;He is as fond of his ship as I
      was at his age. I&rsquo;ll cut him out a better one when I come back. Will you
      give me my nephew one of these days, Lizzie, and will you let me make a
      sailor of him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Robert, if you were only married and happy, as I am!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The time has gone by, my dear. I must make the best of it as I am, with
      my little nephew there to help me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left the room. His sister&rsquo;s tears fell fast as she followed him into
      the parlor. &ldquo;There is something so forlorn and dreadful in your leaving us
      like this,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Shall I go to Aldborough to-morrow, Robert, and try
      if I can get acquainted with her for your sake?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; he replied. &ldquo;Let her be. If it&rsquo;s ordered that I am to see that girl
      again, I <i>shall</i> see her. Leave it to the future, and you leave it
      right.&rdquo; He put on his shoes, and took up his hat and stick. &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t
      overwalk myself,&rdquo; he said, cheerfully. &ldquo;If the coach doesn&rsquo;t overtake me
      on the road, I can wait for it where I stop to breakfast. Dry your eyes,
      my dear, and give me a kiss.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She was like her brother in features and complexion, and she had a touch
      of her brother&rsquo;s spirit; she dashed away the tears, and took her leave of
      him bravely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall be back in a year&rsquo;s time,&rdquo; said Kirke, falling into his old
      sailor-like way at the door. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll bring you a China shawl, Lizzie, and a
      chest of tea for your store-room. Don&rsquo;t let the boys forget me, and don&rsquo;t
      think I&rsquo;m doing wrong to leave you in this way. I know I am doing right.
      God bless you and keep you, my dear&mdash;and your husband, and your
      children! Good-by!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stooped and kissed her. She ran to the door to look after him. A puff
      of air extinguished the candle, and the black night shut him out from her
      in an instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three days afterward the first-class merchantman <i>Deliverance</i>,
      Kirke, commander, sailed from London for the China Sea.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE threatening of storm and change passed away with the night. When
      morning rose over Aldborough, the sun was master in the blue heaven, and
      the waves were rippling gayly under the summer breeze.
    </p>
    <p>
      At an hour when no other visitors to the watering&mdash;place were yet
      astir, the indefatigable Wragge appeared at the door of North Shingles
      Villa, and directed his steps northward, with a neatly-bound copy of
      &ldquo;Joyce&rsquo;s Scientific Dialogues&rdquo; in his hand. Arriving at the waste ground
      beyond the houses, he descended to the beach and opened his book. The
      interview of the past night had sharpened his perception of the
      difficulties to be encountered in the coming enterprise. He was now doubly
      determined to try the characteristic experiment at which he had hinted in
      his letter to Magdalen, and to concentrate on himself&mdash;in the
      character of a remarkably well-informed man&mdash;the entire interest and
      attention of the formidable Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having taken his dose of ready-made science (to use his own expression)
      the first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, Captain Wragge joined
      his small family circle at breakfast-time, inflated with information for
      the day. He observed that Magdalen&rsquo;s face showed plain signs of a
      sleepless night. She made no complaint: her manner was composed, and her
      temper perfectly under control. Mrs. Wragge&mdash;refreshed by some
      thirteen consecutive hours of uninterrupted repose&mdash;was in excellent
      spirits, and up at heel (for a wonder) with both shoes. She brought with
      her into the room several large sheets of tissue-paper, cut crisply into
      mysterious and many-varying forms, which immediately provoked from her
      husband the short and sharp question, &ldquo;What have you got there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Patterns, captain,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, in timidly conciliating tones. &ldquo;I
      went shopping in London, and bought an Oriental Cashmere Robe. It cost a
      deal of money; and I&rsquo;m going to try and save, by making it myself. I&rsquo;ve
      got my patterns, and my dress-making directions written out as plain as
      print. I&rsquo;ll be very tidy, captain; I&rsquo;ll keep in my own corner, if you&rsquo;ll
      please to give me one; and whether my head Buzzes, or whether it don&rsquo;t,
      I&rsquo;ll sit straight at my work all the same.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will do your work,&rdquo; said the captain, sternly, &ldquo;when you know who you
      are, who I am, and who that young lady is&mdash;not before. Show me your
      shoes! Good. Show me you cap! Good. Make the breakfast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When breakfast was over, Mrs. Wragge received her orders to retire into an
      adjoining room, and to wait there until her husband came to release her.
      As soon as her back was turned, Captain Wragge at once resumed the
      conversation which had been suspended, by Magdalen&rsquo;s own desire, on the
      preceding night. The questions he now put to her all related to the
      subject of her visit in disguise to Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s house. They were the
      questions of a thoroughly clear-headed man&mdash;short, searching, and
      straight to the point. In less than half an hour&rsquo;s time he had made
      himself acquainted with every incident that had happened in Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      The conclusions which the captain drew, after gaining his information,
      were clear and easily stated.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the adverse side of the question, he expressed his conviction that Mrs.
      Lecount had certainly detected her visitor to be disguised; that she had
      never really left the room, though she might have opened and shut the
      door; and that on both the occasions, therefore, when Magdalen had been
      betrayed into speaking in her own voice, Mrs. Lecount had heard her. On
      the favorable side of the question, he was perfectly satisfied that the
      painted face and eyelids, the wig, and the padded cloak had so effectually
      concealed Magdalen&rsquo;s identity, that she might in her own person defy the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s closest scrutiny, so far as the matter of appearance was
      concerned. The difficulty of deceiving Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s ears, as well as her
      eyes, was, he readily admitted, not so easily to be disposed of. But
      looking to the fact that Magdalen, on both the occasions when she had
      forgotten herself, had spoken in the heat of anger, he was of opinion that
      her voice had every reasonable chance of escaping detection, if she
      carefully avoided all outbursts of temper for the future, and spoke in
      those more composed and ordinary tones which Mrs. Lecount had not yet
      heard. Upon the whole, the captain was inclined to pronounce the prospect
      hopeful, if one serious obstacle were cleared away at the outset&mdash;that
      obstacle being nothing less than the presence on the scene of action of
      Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      To Magdalen&rsquo;s surprise, when the course of her narrative brought her to
      the story of the ghost, Captain Wragge listened with the air of a man who
      was more annoyed than amused by what he heard. When she had done, he
      plainly told her that her unlucky meeting on the stairs of the
      lodging-house with Mrs. Wragge was, in his opinion, the most serious of
      all the accidents that had happened in Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can deal with the difficulty of my wife&rsquo;s stupidity,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;as I
      have often dealt with it before. I can hammer her new identity <i>into</i>
      her head, but I can&rsquo;t hammer the ghost <i>out</i> of it. We have no
      security that the woman in the gray cloak and poke bonnet may not come
      back to her recollection at the most critical time, and under the most
      awkward circumstances. In plain English, my dear girl, Mrs. Wragge is a
      pitfall under our feet at every step we take.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If we are aware of the pitfall,&rdquo; said Magdalen, &ldquo;we can take our measures
      for avoiding it. What do you propose?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I propose,&rdquo; replied the captain, &ldquo;the temporary removal of Mrs. Wragge.
      Speaking purely in a pecuniary point of view, I can&rsquo;t afford a total
      separation from her. You have often read of very poor people being
      suddenly enriched by legacies reaching them from remote and unexpected
      quarters? Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s case, when I married her, was one of these. An
      elderly female relative shared the favors of fortune on that occasion with
      my wife; and if I only keep up domestic appearances, I happen to know that
      Mrs. Wragge will prove a second time profitable to me on that elderly
      relative&rsquo;s death. But for this circumstance, I should probably long since
      have transferred my wife to the care of society at large&mdash;in the
      agreeable conviction that if I didn&rsquo;t support her, somebody else would.
      Although I can&rsquo;t afford to take this course, I see no objection to having
      her comfortably boarded and lodged out of our way for the time being&mdash;say,
      at a retired farm-house, in the character of a lady in infirm mental
      health. <i>You</i> would find the expense trifling; <i>I</i> should find
      the relief unutterable. What do you say? Shall I pack her up at once, and
      take her away by the next coach?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; replied Magdalen, firmly. &ldquo;The poor creature&rsquo;s life is hard enough
      already; I won&rsquo;t help to make it harder. She was affectionately and truly
      kind to me when I was ill, and I won&rsquo;t allow her to be shut up among
      strangers while I can help it. The risk of keeping her here is only one
      risk more. I will face it, Captain Wragge, if you won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Think twice,&rdquo; said the captain, gravely, &ldquo;before you decide on keeping
      Mrs. Wragge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Once is enough,&rdquo; rejoined Magdalen. &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t have her sent away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good,&rdquo; said the captain, resignedly. &ldquo;I never interfere with
      questions of sentiment. But I have a word to say on my own behalf. If my
      services are to be of any use to you, I can&rsquo;t have my hands tied at
      starting. This is serious. I won&rsquo;t trust my wife and Mrs. Lecount
      together. I&rsquo;m afraid, if you&rsquo;re not, and I make it a condition that, if
      Mrs. Wragge stops here, she keeps her room. If you think her health
      requires it, you can take her for a walk early in the morning, or late in
      the evening; but you must never trust her out with the servant, and never
      trust her out by herself. I put the matter plainly, it is too important to
      be trifled with. What do you say&mdash;yes or no?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I say yes,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, after a moment&rsquo;s consideration. &ldquo;On the
      understanding that I am to take her out walking, as you propose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge bowed, and recovered his suavity of manner. &ldquo;What are our
      plans?&rdquo; he inquired. &ldquo;Shall we start our enterprise this afternoon? Are
      you ready for your introduction to Mrs. Lecount and her master?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite ready.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good again. We will meet them on the Parade, at their usual hour for
      going out&mdash;two o&rsquo;clock. It is not twelve yet. I have two hours
      before me&mdash;just time enough to fit my wife into her new Skin. The
      process is absolutely necessary, to prevent her compromising us with the
      servant. Don&rsquo;t be afraid about the results; Mrs. Wragge has had a copious
      selection of assumed names hammered into her head in the course of her
      matrimonial career. It is merely a question of hammering hard enough&mdash;nothing
      more. I think we have settled everything now. Is there anything I can do
      before two o&rsquo;clock? Have you any employment for the morning?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I shall go back to my own room, and try to rest.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You had a disturbed night, I am afraid?&rdquo; said the captain, politely
      opening the door for her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I fell asleep once or twice,&rdquo; she answered, carelessly. &ldquo;I suppose my
      nerves are a little shaken. The bold black eyes of that man who stared so
      rudely at me yesterday evening seemed to be looking at me again in my
      dreams. If we see him to-day, and if he annoys me any more, I must trouble
      you to speak to him. We will meet here again at two o&rsquo;clock. Don&rsquo;t be hard
      with Mrs. Wragge; teach her what she must learn as tenderly as you can.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words she left him, and went upstairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      She lay down on her bed with a heavy sigh, and tried to sleep. It was
      useless. The dull weariness of herself which now possessed her was not the
      weariness which finds its remedy in repose. She rose again and sat by the
      window, looking out listlessly over the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      A weaker nature than hers would not have felt the shock of Frank&rsquo;s
      desertion as she had felt it&mdash;as she was feeling it still. A weaker
      nature would have found refuge in indignation and comfort in tears. The
      passionate strength of Magdalen&rsquo;s love clung desperately to the sinking
      wreck of its own delusion-clung, until she tore herself from it, by plain
      force of will. All that her native pride, her keen sense of wrong could
      do, was to shame her from dwelling on the thoughts which still caught
      their breath of life from the undying devotion of the past; which still
      perversely ascribed Frank&rsquo;s heartless farewell to any cause but the inborn
      baseness of the man who had written it. The woman never lived yet who
      could cast a true-love out of her heart because the object of that love
      was unworthy of her. All she can do is to struggle against it in secret&mdash;to
      sink in the contest if she is weak; to win her way through it if she is
      strong, by a process of self-laceration which is, of all moral remedies
      applied to a woman&rsquo;s nature, the most dangerous and the most desperate; of
      all moral changes, the change that is surest to mark her for life.
      Magdalen&rsquo;s strong nature had sustained her through the struggle; and the
      issue of it had left her what she now was.
    </p>
    <p>
      After sitting by the window for nearly an hour, her eyes looking
      mechanically at the view, her mind empty of all impressions, and conscious
      of no thoughts, she shook off the strange waking stupor that possessed
      her, and rose to prepare herself for the serious business of the day.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went to the wardrobe and took down from the pegs two bright, delicate
      muslin dresses, which had been made for summer wear at Combe-Raven a year
      since, and which had been of too little value to be worth selling when she
      parted with her other possessions. After placing these dresses side by
      side on the bed, she looked into the wardrobe once more. It only contained
      one other summer dress&mdash;the plain alpaca gown which she had worn
      during her memorable interview with Noel Vanstone and Mrs. Lecount. This
      she left in its place, resolving not to wear it&mdash;less from any dread
      that the housekeeper might recognize a pattern too quiet to be noticed,
      and too common to be remembered, than from the conviction that it was
      neither gay enough nor becoming enough for her purpose. After taking a
      plain white muslin scarf, a pair of light gray kid gloves, and a
      garden-hat of Tuscan straw, from the drawers of the wardrobe, she locked
      it, and put the key carefully in her pocket.
    </p>
    <p>
      Instead of at once proceeding to dress herself, she sat idly looking at
      the two muslin gowns; careless which she wore, and yet inconsistently
      hesitating which to choose. &ldquo;What does it matter!&rdquo; she said to herself,
      with a reckless laugh; &ldquo;I am equally worthless in my own estimation,
      whichever I put on.&rdquo; She shuddered, as if the sound of her own laughter
      had startled her, and abruptly caught up the dress which lay nearest to
      her hand. Its colors were blue and white&mdash;the shade of blue which
      best suited her fair complexion. She hurriedly put on the gown, without
      going near her looking-glass. For the first time in her life she shrank
      from meeting the reflection of herself&mdash;except for a moment, when she
      arranged her hair under her garden-hat, leaving the glass again
      immediately. She drew her scarf over her shoulders and fitted on her
      gloves, with her back to the toilet-table. &ldquo;Shall I paint?&rdquo; she asked
      herself, feeling instinctively that she was turning pale. &ldquo;The rouge is
      still left in my box. It can&rsquo;t make my face more false than it is
      already.&rdquo; She looked round toward the glass, and again turned away from
      it. &ldquo;No!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I have Mrs. Lecount to face as well as her master. No
      paint.&rdquo; After consulting her watch, she left the room and went downstairs
      again. It wanted ten minutes only of two o&rsquo;clock.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge was waiting for her in the parlor&mdash;respectable, in a
      frock-coat, a stiff summer cravat, and a high white hat; specklessly and
      cheerfully rural, in a buff waistcoat, gray trousers, and gaiters to
      match. His collars were higher than ever, and he carried a brand-new
      camp-stool in his hand. Any tradesman in England who had seen him at that
      moment would have trusted him on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Charming!&rdquo; said the captain, paternally surveying Magdalen when she
      entered the room. &ldquo;So fresh and cool! A little too pale, my dear, and a
      great deal too serious. Otherwise perfect. Try if you can smile.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When the time comes for smiling,&rdquo; said Magdalen, bitterly, &ldquo;trust my
      dramatic training for any change of face that may be necessary. Where is
      Mrs. Wragge?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Wragge has learned her lesson,&rdquo; replied the captain, &ldquo;and is
      rewarded by my permission to sit at work in her own room. I sanction her
      new fancy for dressmaking, because it is sure to absorb all her attention,
      and to keep her at home. There is no fear of her finishing the Oriental
      Robe in a hurry, for there is no mistake in the process of making it which
      she is not certain to commit. She will sit incubating her gown&mdash;pardon
      the expression&mdash;like a hen over an addled egg. I assure you, her new
      whim relieves me. Nothing could be more convenient, under existing
      circumstances.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He strutted away to the window, looked out, and beckoned to Magdalen to
      join him. &ldquo;There they are!&rdquo; he said, and pointed to the Parade.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone slowly walked by, as she looked, dressed in a complete suit
      of old-fashioned nankeen. It was apparently one of the days when the state
      of his health was at the worst. He leaned on Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s arm, and was
      protected from the sun by a light umbrella which she held over him. The
      housekeeper&mdash;dressed to perfection, as usual, in a quiet,
      lavender-colored summer gown, a black mantilla, an unassuming straw
      bonnet, and a crisp blue veil&mdash;escorted her invalid master with the
      tenderest attention; sometimes directing his notice respectfully to the
      various objects of the sea view; sometimes bending her head in graceful
      acknowledgment of the courtesy of passing strangers on the Parade, who
      stepped aside to let the invalid pass by. She produced a visible effect
      among the idlers on the beach. They looked after her with unanimous
      interest, and exchanged confidential nods of approval which said, as
      plainly as words could have expressed it, &ldquo;A very domestic person! a truly
      superior woman!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s party-colored eyes followed Mrs. Lecount with a steady,
      distrustful attention. &ldquo;Tough work for us <i>there</i>,&rdquo; he whispered in
      Magdalen&rsquo;s ear; &ldquo;tougher work than you think, before we turn that woman
      out of her place.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait,&rdquo; said Magdalen, quietly. &ldquo;Wait and see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She walked to the door. The captain followed her without making any
      further remark. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll wait till you&rsquo;re married,&rdquo; he thought to himself&mdash;&ldquo;not
      a moment longer, offer me what you may.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At the house door Magdalen addressed him again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will go that way,&rdquo; she said, pointing southward, &ldquo;then turn, and meet
      them as they come back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge signified his approval of the arrangement, and followed
      Magdalen to the garden gate. As she opened it to pass through, her
      attention was attracted by a lady, with a nursery-maid and two little boys
      behind her, loitering on the path outside the garden wall. The lady
      started, looked eagerly, and smiled to herself as Magdalen came out.
      Curiosity had got the better of Kirke&rsquo;s sister, and she had come to
      Aldborough for the express purpose of seeing Miss Bygrave.
    </p>
    <p>
      Something in the shape of the lady&rsquo;s face, something in the expression of
      her dark eyes, reminded Magdalen of the merchant-captain whose
      uncontrolled admiration had annoyed her on the previous evening. She
      instantly returned the stranger&rsquo;s scrutiny by a frowning, ungracious look.
      The lady colored, paid the look back with interest, and slowly walked on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A hard, bold, bad girl,&rdquo; thought Kirke&rsquo;s sister. &ldquo;What could Robert be
      thinking of to admire her? I am almost glad he is gone. I hope and trust
      he will never set eyes on Miss Bygrave again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What boors the people are here!&rdquo; said Magdalen to Captain Wragge. &ldquo;That
      woman was even ruder than the man last night. She is like him in the face.
      I wonder who she is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll find out directly,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t be too cautious
      about strangers.&rdquo; He at once appealed to his friends, the boatmen. They
      were close at hand, and Magdalen heard the questions and answers plainly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How are you all this morning?&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, in his easy jocular
      way. &ldquo;And how&rsquo;s the wind? Nor&rsquo;-west and by west, is it? Very good. Who is
      that lady?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s Mrs. Strickland, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay! ay! The clergyman&rsquo;s wife and the captain&rsquo;s sister. Where&rsquo;s the
      captain to-day?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On his way to London, I should think, sir. His ship sails for China at
      the end of the week.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      China! As that one word passed the man&rsquo;s lips, a pang of the old sorrow
      struck Magdalen to the heart. Stranger as he was, she began to hate the
      bare mention of the merchant-captain&rsquo;s name. He had troubled her dreams of
      the past night; and now, when she was most desperately and recklessly bent
      on forgetting her old home-existence, he had been indirectly the cause of
      recalling her mind to Frank.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come!&rdquo; she said, angrily, to her companion. &ldquo;What do we care about the
      man or his ship? Come away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all means,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;As long as we don&rsquo;t find friends of
      the Bygraves, what do we care about anybody?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They walked on southward for ten minutes or more, then turned and walked
      back again to meet Noel Vanstone and Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      CAPTAIN WRAGGE and Magdalen retraced their steps until they were again
      within view of North Shingles Villa before any signs appeared of Mrs.
      Lecount and her master. At that point the housekeeper&rsquo;s lavender-colored
      dress, the umbrella, and the feeble little figure in nankeen walking under
      it, became visible in the distance. The captain slackened his pace
      immediately, and issued his directions to Magdalen for her conduct at the
      coming interview in these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t forget your smile,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;In all other respects you will do.
      The walk has improved your complexion, and the hat becomes you. Look Mrs.
      Lecount steadily in the face; show no embarrassment when you speak; and if
      Mr. Noel Vanstone pays you pointed attention, don&rsquo;t take too much notice
      of him while his housekeeper&rsquo;s eye is on you. Mind one thing! I have been
      at Joyce&rsquo;s Scientific Dialogues all the morning; and I am quite serious in
      meaning to give Mrs. Lecount the full benefit of my studies. If I can&rsquo;t
      contrive to divert her attention from you and her master, I won&rsquo;t give
      sixpence for our chance of success. Small-talk won&rsquo;t succeed with that
      woman; compliments won&rsquo;t succeed; jokes won&rsquo;t succeed&mdash;ready-made
      science may recall the deceased professor, and ready-made science may do.
      We must establish a code of signals to let you know what I am about.
      Observe this camp-stool. When I shift it from my left hand to my right, I
      am talking Joyce. When I shift it from my right hand to my left, I am
      talking Wragge. In the first case, don&rsquo;t interrupt me&mdash;I am leading
      up to my point. In the second case, say anything you like; my remarks are
      not of the slightest consequence. Would you like a rehearsal? Are you sure
      you understand? Very good&mdash;take my arm, and look happy. Steady! here
      they are.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The meeting took place nearly midway between Sea-view Cottage and North
      Shingles. Captain Wragge took off his tall white hat and opened the
      interview immediately on the friendliest terms.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning, Mrs. Lecount,&rdquo; he said, with the frank and cheerful
      politeness of a naturally sociable man. &ldquo;Good-morning, Mr. Vanstone; I am
      sorry to see you suffering to-day. Mrs. Lecount, permit me to introduce my
      niece&mdash;my niece, Miss Bygrave. My dear girl, this is Mr. Noel
      Vanstone, our neighbor at Sea-view Cottage. We must positively be sociable
      at Aldborough, Mrs. Lecount. There is only one walk in the place (as my
      niece remarked to me just now, Mr. Vanstone); and on that walk we must all
      meet every time we go out. And why not? Are we formal people on either
      side? Nothing of the sort; we are just the reverse. You possess the
      Continental facility of manner, Mr. Vanstone&mdash;I match you with the
      blunt cordiality of an old-fashioned Englishman&mdash;the ladies mingle
      together in harmonious variety, like flowers on the same bed&mdash;and the
      result is a mutual interest in making our sojourn at the sea-side
      agreeable to each other. Pardon my flow of spirits; pardon my feeling so
      cheerful and so young. The Iodine in the sea-air, Mrs. Lecount&mdash;the
      notorious effect of the Iodine in the sea-air!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You arrived yesterday, Miss Bygrave, did you not?&rdquo; said the housekeeper,
      as soon as the captain&rsquo;s deluge of language had come to an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      She addressed those words to Magdalen with a gentle motherly interest in
      her youth and beauty, chastened by the deferential amiability which became
      her situation in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s household. Not the faintest token of
      suspicion or surprise betrayed itself in her face, her voice, or her
      manner, while she and Magdalen now looked at each other. It was plain at
      the outset that the true face and figure which she now saw recalled
      nothing to her mind of the false face and figure which she had seen in
      Vauxhall Walk. The disguise had evidently been complete enough even to
      baffle the penetration of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My aunt and I came here yesterday evening,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;We found the
      latter part of the journey very fatiguing. I dare say you found it so,
      too?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She designedly made her answer longer than was necessary for the purpose
      of discovering, at the earliest opportunity, the effect which the sound of
      her voice produced on Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The housekeeper&rsquo;s thin lips maintained their motherly smile; the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s amiable manner lost none of its modest deference, but the
      expression of her eyes suddenly changed from a look of attention to a look
      of inquiry. Magdalen quietly said a few words more, and then waited again
      for results. The change spread gradually all over Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s face, the
      motherly smile died away, and the amiable manner betrayed a slight touch
      of restraint. Still no signs of positive recognition appeared; the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s expression remained what it had been from the first&mdash;an
      expression of inquiry, and nothing more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You complained of fatigue, sir, a few minutes since,&rdquo; she said, dropping
      all further conversation with Magdalen and addressing her master. &ldquo;Will
      you go indoors and rest?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The proprietor of Sea-view Cottage had hitherto confined himself to
      bowing, simpering and admiring Magdalen through his half-closed eyelids.
      There was no mistaking the sudden flutter and agitation in his manner, and
      the heightened color in his wizen little face. Even the reptile
      temperament of Noel Vanstone warmed under the influence of the sex: he had
      an undeniably appreciative eye for a handsome woman, and Magdalen&rsquo;s grace
      and beauty were not thrown away on him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you go indoors, sir, and rest?&rdquo; asked the housekeeper, repeating her
      quest ion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not yet, Lecount,&rdquo; said her master. &ldquo;I fancy I feel stronger; I fancy I
      can go on a little.&rdquo; He turned simpering to Magdalen, and added, in a
      lower tone: &ldquo;I have found a new interest in my walk, Miss Bygrave. Don&rsquo;t
      desert us, or you will take the interest away with you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He smiled and smirked in the highest approval of the ingenuity of his own
      compliment&mdash;from which Captain Wragge dexterously diverted the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s attention by ranging himself on her side of the path and
      speaking to her at the same moment. They all four walked on slowly. Mrs.
      Lecount said nothing more. She kept fast hold of her master&rsquo;s arm, and
      looked across him at Magdalen with the dangerous expression of inquiry
      more marked than ever in her handsome black eyes. That look was not lost
      on the wary Wragge. He shifted his indicative camp-stool from the left
      hand to the right, and opened his scientific batteries on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A busy scene, Mrs. Lecount,&rdquo; said the captain, politely waving his
      camp-stool over the sea and the passing ships. &ldquo;The greatness of England,
      ma&rsquo;am&mdash;the true greatness of England. Pray observe how heavily some
      of those vessels are laden! I am often inclined to wonder whether the
      British sailor is at all aware, when he has got his cargo on board, of the
      Hydrostatic importance of the operation that he has performed. If I were
      suddenly transported to the deck of one of those ships (which Heaven
      forbid, for I suffer at sea); and if I said to a member of the crew:
      &lsquo;Jack! you have done wonders; you have grasped the Theory of Floating
      Vessels&rsquo;&mdash;how the gallant fellow would stare! And yet on that theory
      Jack&rsquo;s life depends. If he loads his vessel one-thirtieth part more than
      he ought, what happens? He sails past Aldborough, I grant you, in safety.
      He enters the Thames, I grant you again, in safety. He gets on into the
      fresh water as far, let us say, as Greenwich; and&mdash;down he goes!
      Down, ma&rsquo;am, to the bottom of the river, as a matter of scientific
      certainty!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Here he paused, and left Mrs. Lecount no polite alternative but to request
      an explanation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With infinite pleasure, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; said the captain, drowning in the deepest
      notes of his voice the feeble treble in which Noel Vanstone paid his
      compliments to Magdalen. &ldquo;We will start, if you please, with a first
      principle. All bodies whatever that float on the surface of the water
      displace as much fluid as is equal in weight to the weight of the bodies.
      Good. We have got our first principle. What do we deduce from it?
      Manifestly this: That, in order to keep a vessel above water, it is
      necessary to take care that the vessel and its cargo shall be of less
      weight than the weight of a quantity of water&mdash;pray follow me here!&mdash;of
      a quantity of water equal in bulk to that part of the vessel which it will
      be safe to immerse in the water. Now, ma&rsquo;am, salt-water is specifically
      thirty times heavier than fresh or river water, and a vessel in the German
      Ocean will not sink so deep as a vessel in the Thames. Consequently, when
      we load our ship with a view to the London market, we have
      (Hydrostatically speaking) three alternatives. Either we load with
      one-thirtieth part less than we can carry at sea; or we take one-thirtieth
      part out at the mouth of the river; or we do neither the one nor the
      other, and, as I have already had the honor of remarking&mdash;down we go!
      Such,&rdquo; said the captain, shifting the camp-stool back again from his right
      hand to his left, in token that Joyce was done with for the time being;
      &ldquo;such, my dear madam, is the Theory of Floating Vessels. Permit me to add,
      in conclusion, you are heartily welcome to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;You have unintentionally saddened
      me; but the information I have received is not the less precious on that
      account. It is long, long ago, Mr. Bygrave, since I have heard myself
      addressed in the language of science. My dear husband made me his
      companion&mdash;my dear husband improved my mind as you have been trying
      to improve it. Nobody has taken pains with my intellect since. Many
      thanks, sir. Your kind consideration for me is not thrown away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She sighed with a plaintive humility, and privately opened her ears to the
      conversation on the other side of her.
    </p>
    <p>
      A minute earlier she would have heard her master expressing himself in the
      most flattering terms on the subject of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s appearance in her
      sea-side costume. But Magdalen had seen Captain Wragge&rsquo;s signal with the
      camp-stool, and had at once diverted Noel Vanstone to the topic of himself
      and his possessions by a neatly-timed question about his house at
      Aldborough.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t wish to alarm you, Miss Bygrave,&rdquo; were the first words of Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s which caught Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s attention, &ldquo;but there is only one
      safe house in Aldborough, and that house is mine. The sea may destroy all
      the other houses&mdash;it can&rsquo;t destroy Mine. My father took care of that;
      my father was a remarkable man. He had My house built on piles. I have
      reason to believe they are the strongest piles in England. Nothing can
      possibly knock them down&mdash;I don&rsquo;t care what the sea does&mdash;nothing
      can possibly knock them down.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then, if the sea invades us,&rdquo; said Magdalen, &ldquo;we must all run for refuge
      to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone saw his way to another compliment; and, at the same moment,
      the wary captain saw his way to another burst of science.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I could almost wish the invasion might happen,&rdquo; murmured one of the
      gentlemen, &ldquo;to give me the happiness of offering the refuge.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I could almost swear the wind had shifted again!&rdquo; exclaimed the other.
      &ldquo;Where is a man I can ask? Oh, there he is. Boatman! How&rsquo;s the wind now?
      Nor&rsquo;west and by west still&mdash;hey? And southeast and by south yesterday
      evening&mdash;ha? Is there anything more remarkable, Mrs. Lecount, than
      the variableness of the wind in this climate?&rdquo; proceeded the captain,
      shifting the camp-stool to the scientific side of him. &ldquo;Is there any
      natural phenomenon more bewildering to the scientific inquirer? You will
      tell me that the electric fluid which abounds in the air is the principal
      cause of this variableness. You will remind me of the experiment of that
      illustrious philosopher who measured the velocity of a great storm by a
      flight of small feathers. My dear madam, I grant all your propositions&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount; &ldquo;you kindly attribute to me a
      knowledge that I don&rsquo;t possess. Propositions, I regret to say, are quite
      beyond me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t misunderstand me, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; continued the captain, politely
      unconscious of the interruption. &ldquo;My remarks apply to the temperate zone
      only. Place me on the coasts beyond the tropics&mdash;place me where the
      wind blows toward the shore in the day-time, and toward the sea by night&mdash;and
      I instantly advance toward conclusive experiments. For example, I know
      that the heat of the sun during the day rarefies the air over the land,
      and so causes the wind. You challenge me to prove it. I escort you down
      the kitchen stairs (with your kind permission); take my largest pie-dish
      out of the cook&rsquo;s hands; I fill it with cold water. Good! that dish of
      cold water represents the ocean. I next provide myself with one of our
      most precious domestic conveniences, a hot-water plate; I fill it with hot
      water and I put it in the middle of the pie-dish. Good again! the
      hot-water plate represents the land rarefying the air over it. Bear that
      in mind, and give me a lighted candle. I hold my lighted candle over the
      cold water, and blow it out. The smoke immediately moves from the dish to
      the plate. Before you have time to express your satisfaction, I light the
      candle once more, and reverse the whole proceeding. I fill the pie-dish
      with hot-water, and the plate with cold; I blow the candle out again, and
      the smoke moves this time from the plate to the dish. The smell is
      disagreeable&mdash;but the experiment is conclusive.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He shifted the camp-stool back again, and looked at Mrs. Lecount with his
      ingratiating smile. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t find me long-winded, ma&rsquo;am&mdash;do you?&rdquo;
       he said, in his easy, cheerful way, just as the housekeeper was privately
      opening her ears once more to the conversation on the other side of her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am amazed, sir, by the range of your information,&rdquo; replied Mrs.
      Lecount, observing the captain with some perplexity&mdash;but thus far
      with no distrust. She thought him eccentric, even for an Englishman, and
      possibly a little vain of his knowledge. But he had at least paid her the
      implied compliment of addressing that knowledge to herself; and she felt
      it the more sensibly, from having hitherto found her scientific sympathies
      with her deceased husband treated with no great respect by the people with
      whom she came in contact. &ldquo;Have you extended your inquiries, sir,&rdquo; she
      proceeded, after a momentary hesitation, &ldquo;to my late husband&rsquo;s branch of
      science? I merely ask, Mr. Bygrave, because (though I am only a woman) I
      think I might exchange ideas with you on the subject of the reptile
      creation.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge was far too sharp to risk his ready-made science on the
      enemy&rsquo;s ground. The old militia-man shook his wary head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Too vast a subject, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;for a smatterer like me. The life
      and labors of such a philosopher as your husband, Mrs. Lecount, warn men
      of my intellectual caliber not to measure themselves with a giant. May I
      inquire,&rdquo; proceeded the captain, softly smoothing the way for future
      intercourse with Sea-view Cottage, &ldquo;whether you possess any scientific
      memorials of the late Professor?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I possess his Tank, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, modestly casting her eyes on
      the ground, &ldquo;and one of his Subjects&mdash;a little foreign Toad.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His Tank!&rdquo; exclaimed the captain, in tones of mournful interest; &ldquo;and his
      Toad! Pardon my blunt way of speaking my mind, ma&rsquo;am. You possess an
      object of public interest; and, as one of the public, I acknowledge my
      curiosity to see it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s smooth cheeks colored with pleasure. The one assailable
      place in that cold and secret nature was the place occupied by the memory
      of the Professor. Her pride in his scientific achievements, and her
      mortification at finding them but little known out of his own country,
      were genuine feelings. Never had Captain Wragge burned his adulterated
      incense on the flimsy altar of human vanity to better purpose than he was
      burning it now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are very good, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;In honoring my husband&rsquo;s
      memory, you honor me. But though you kindly treat me on a footing of
      equality, I must not forget that I fill a domestic situation. I shall feel
      it a privilege to show you my relics, if you will allow me to ask my
      master&rsquo;s permission first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She turned to Noel Vanstone; her perfectly sincere intention of making the
      proposed request, mingling&mdash;in that strange complexity of motives
      which is found so much oftener in a woman&rsquo;s mind than in a man&rsquo;s&mdash;with
      her jealous distrust of the impression which Magdalen had produced on her
      master.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I make a request, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount, after waiting a moment to
      catch any fragments of tenderly-personal talk that might reach her, and
      after being again neatly baffled by Magdalen&mdash;thanks to the
      camp-stool. &ldquo;Mr. Bygrave is one of the few persons in England who
      appreciate my husband&rsquo;s scientific labors. He honors me by wishing to see
      my little world of reptiles. May I show it to him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all means, Lecount,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, graciously. &ldquo;You are an
      excellent creature, and I like to oblige you. Lecount&rsquo;s Tank, Mr. Bygrave,
      is the only Tank in England&mdash;Lecount&rsquo;s Toad is the oldest Toad in the
      world. Will you come and drink tea at seven o&rsquo;clock to-night? And will you
      prevail on Miss Bygrave to accompany you? I want her to see my house. I
      don&rsquo;t think she has any idea what a strong house it is. Come and survey my
      premises, Miss Bygrave. You shall have a stick and rap on the walls; you
      shall go upstairs and stamp on the floors, and then you shall hear what it
      all cost.&rdquo; His eyes wrinkled up cunningly at the corners, and he slipped
      another tender speech into Magdalen&rsquo;s ear, under cover of the
      all-predominating voice in which Captain Wragge thanked him for the
      invitation. &ldquo;Come punctually at seven,&rdquo; he whispered, &ldquo;and pray wear that
      charming hat!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s lips closed ominously. She set down the captain&rsquo;s niece as
      a very serious drawback to the intellectual luxury of the captain&rsquo;s
      society.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are fatiguing yourself, sir,&rdquo; she said to her master. &ldquo;This is one of
      your bad days. Let me recommend you to be careful; let me beg you to walk
      back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having carried his point by inviting the new acquaintances to tea, Noel
      Vanstone proved to be unexpectedly docile. He acknowledged that he was a
      little fatigued, and turned back at once in obedience to the housekeeper&rsquo;s
      advice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take my arm, sir&mdash;take my arm on the other side,&rdquo; said Captain
      Wragge, as they turned to retrace their steps. His party-colored eyes
      looked significantly at Magdalen while he spoke, and warned her not to
      stretch Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s endurance too far at starting. She instantly
      understood him; and, in spite of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s reiterated assertions
      that he stood in no need of the captain&rsquo;s arm, placed herself at once by
      the housekeeper&rsquo;s side. Mrs. Lecount recovered her good-humor, and opened
      another conversation with Magdalen by making the one inquiry of all others
      which, under existing circumstances, was the hardest to answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I presume Mrs. Bygrave is too tired, after her journey, to come out
      to-day?&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Shall we have the pleasure of seeing her
      tomorrow?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Probably not,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;My aunt is in delicate health.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A complicated case, my dear madam,&rdquo; added the captain; conscious that
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s personal appearance (if she happened to be seen by accident)
      would offer the flattest of all possible contradictions to what Magdalen
      had just said of her. &ldquo;There is some remote nervous mischief which doesn&rsquo;t
      express itself externally. You would think my wife the picture of health
      if you looked at her, and yet, so delusive are appearances, I am obliged
      to forbid her all excitement. She sees no society&mdash;our medical
      attendant, I regret to say, absolutely prohibits it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very sad,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;The poor lady must often feel lonely, sir,
      when you and your niece are away from her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;Mrs. Bygrave is a naturally domestic woman.
      When she is able to employ herself, she finds unlimited resources in her
      needle and thread.&rdquo; Having reached this stage of the explanation, and
      having purposely skirted, as it were, round the confines of truth, in the
      event of the housekeeper&rsquo;s curiosity leading her to make any private
      inquiries on the subject of Mrs. Wragge, the captain wisely checked his
      fluent tongue from carrying him into any further details. &ldquo;I have great
      hope from the air of this place,&rdquo; he remarked, in conclusion. &ldquo;The Iodine,
      as I have already observed, does wonders.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount acknowledged the virtues of Iodine, in the briefest possible
      form of words, and withdrew into the innermost sanctuary of her own
      thoughts. &ldquo;Some mystery here,&rdquo; said the housekeeper to herself. &ldquo;A lady
      who looks the picture of health; a lady who suffers from a complicated
      nervous malady; and a lady whose hand is steady enough to use her needle
      and thread&mdash;is a living mass of contradictions I don&rsquo;t quite
      understand. Do you make a long stay at Aldborough, sir?&rdquo; she added aloud,
      her eyes resting for a moment, in steady scrutiny, on the captain&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It all depends, my dear madam, on Mrs. Bygrave. I trust we shall stay
      through the autumn. You are settled at Sea-view Cottage, I presume, for
      the season?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You must ask my master, sir. It is for him to decide, not for me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The answer was an unfortunate one. Noel Vanstone had been secretly annoyed
      by the change in the walking arrangements, which had separated him from
      Magdalen. He attributed that change to the meddling influence of Mrs.
      Lecount, and he now took the earliest opportunity of resenting it on the
      spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have nothing to do with our stay at Aldborough,&rdquo; he broke out,
      peevishly. &ldquo;You know as well as I do, Lecount, it all depends on <i>you</i>.
      Mrs. Lecount has a brother in Switzerland,&rdquo; he went on, addressing himself
      to the captain&mdash;&ldquo;a brother who is seriously ill. If he gets worse,
      she will have to go there to see him. I can&rsquo;t accompany her, and I can&rsquo;t
      be left in the house by myself. I shall have to break up my establishment
      at Aldborough, and stay with some friends. It all depends on you, Lecount&mdash;or
      on your brother, which comes to the same thing. If it depended on <i>me</i>,&rdquo;
       continued Mr. Noel Vanstone, looking pointedly at Magdalen across the
      housekeeper, &ldquo;I should stay at Aldborough all through the autumn with the
      greatest pleasure. With the greatest pleasure,&rdquo; he reiterated, repeating
      the words with a tender look for Magdalen, and a spiteful accent for Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus far Captain Wragge had remained silent; carefully noting in his mind
      the promising possibilities of a separation between Mrs. Lecount and her
      master which Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s little fretful outbreak had just disclosed to
      him. An ominous trembling in the housekeeper&rsquo;s thin lips, as her master
      openly exposed her family affairs before strangers, and openly set her
      jealously at defiance, now warned him to interfere. If the
      misunderstanding were permitted to proceed to extremities, there was a
      chance that the invitation for that evening to Sea-view Cottage might be
      put off. Now, as ever, equal to the occasion, Captain Wragge called his
      useful information once more to the rescue. Under the learned auspices of
      Joyce, he plunged, for the third time, into the ocean of science, and
      brought up another pearl. He was still haranguing (on Pneumatics this
      time), still improving Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s mind with his politest perseverance
      and his smoothest flow of language&mdash;when the walking party stopped at
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bless my soul, here we are at your house, sir!&rdquo; said the captain,
      interrupting himself in the middle of one of his graphic sentences. &ldquo;I
      won&rsquo;t keep you standing a moment. Not a word of apology, Mrs. Lecount, I
      beg and pray! I will put that curious point in Pneumatics more clearly
      before you on a future occasion. In the meantime I need only repeat that
      you can perform the experiment I have just mentioned to your own entire
      satisfaction with a bladder, an exhausted receiver, and a square box. At
      seven o&rsquo;clock this evening, sir&mdash;at seven o&rsquo;clock, Mrs. Lecount. We
      have had a remarkably pleasant walk, and a most instructive interchange of
      ideas. Now, my dear girl, your aunt is waiting for us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While Mrs. Lecount stepped aside to open the garden gate, Noel Vanstone
      seized his opportunity and shot a last tender glance at Magdalen, under
      shelter of the umbrella, which he had taken into his own hands for that
      express purpose. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t forget,&rdquo; he said, with the sweetest smile; &ldquo;don&rsquo;t
      forget, when you come this evening, to wear that charming hat!&rdquo; Before he
      could add any last words, Mrs. Lecount glided back to her place, and the
      sheltering umbrella changed hands again immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An excellent morning&rsquo;s work!&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, as he and Magdalen
      walked on together to North Shingles. &ldquo;You and I and Joyce have all three
      done wonders. We have secured a friendly invitation at the first day&rsquo;s
      fishing for it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paused for an answer; and, receiving none, observed Magdalen more
      attentively than he had observed her yet. Her face had turned deadly pale
      again; her eyes looked out mechanically straight before her in heedless,
      reckless despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is the matter?&rdquo; he asked, with the greatest surprise. &ldquo;Are you ill?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She made no reply; she hardly seemed to hear him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you getting alarmed about Mrs. Lecount?&rdquo; he inquired next. &ldquo;There is
      not the least reason for alarm. She may fancy she has heard something like
      your voice before, but your face evidently bewilders her. Keep your
      temper, and you keep her in the dark. Keep her in the dark, and you will
      put that two hundred pounds into my hands before the autumn is over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He waited again for an answer, and again she remained silent. The captain
      tried for the third time in another direction.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you get any letters this morning?&rdquo; he went on. &ldquo;Is there bad news
      again from home? Any fresh difficulties with your sister?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Say nothing about my sister!&rdquo; she broke out passionately. &ldquo;Neither you
      nor I are fit to speak of her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She said those words at the garden-gate, and hurried into the house by
      herself. He followed her, and heard the door of her own room violently
      shut to, violently locked and double-locked. Solacing his indignation by
      an oath, Captain Wragge sullenly went into one of the parlors on the
      ground-floor to look after his wife. The room communicated with a smaller
      and darker room at the back of the house by means of a quaint little door
      with a window in the upper half of it. Softly approaching this door, the
      captain lifted the white muslin curtain which hung over the window, and
      looked into the inner room.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was Mrs. Wragge, with her cap on one side, and her shoes down at
      heel; with a row of pins between her teeth; with the Oriental Cashmere
      Robe slowly slipping off the table; with her scissors suspended uncertain
      in one hand, and her written directions for dressmaking held doubtfully in
      the other&mdash;so absorbed over the invincible difficulties of her
      employment as to be perfectly unconscious that she was at that moment the
      object of her husband&rsquo;s superintending eye. Under other circumstances she
      would have been soon brought to a sense of her situation by the sound of
      his voice. But Captain Wragge was too anxious about Magdalen to waste any
      time on his wife, after satisfying himself that she was safe in her
      seclusion, and that she might be trusted to remain there.
    </p>
    <p>
      He left the parlor, and, after a little hesitation in the passage, stole
      upstairs and listened anxiously outside Magdalen&rsquo;s door. A dull sound of
      sobbing&mdash;a sound stifled in her handkerchief, or stifled in the
      bed-clothes&mdash;was all that caught his ear. He returned at once to the
      ground-floor, with some faint suspicion of the truth dawning on his mind
      at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The devil take that sweetheart of hers!&rdquo; thought the captain. &ldquo;Mr. Noel
      Vanstone has raised the ghost of him at starting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER V.
    </h3>
    <p>
      WHEN Magdalen appeared in the parlor shortly before seven o&rsquo;clock, not a
      trace of discomposure was visible in her manner. She looked and spoke as
      quietly and unconcernedly as usual.
    </p>
    <p>
      The lowering distrust on Captain Wragge&rsquo;s face cleared away at the sight
      of her. There had been moments during the afternoon when he had seriously
      doubted whether the pleasure of satisfying the grudge he owed to Noel
      Vanstone, and the prospect of earning the sum of two hundred pounds, would
      not be dearly purchased by running the risk of discovery to which
      Magdalen&rsquo;s uncertain temper might expose him at any hour of the day. The
      plain proof now before him of her powers of self-control relieved his mind
      of a serious anxiety. It mattered little to the captain what she suffered
      in the privacy of her own chamber, as long as she came out of it with a
      face that would bear inspection, and a voice that betrayed nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the way to Sea-view Cottage, Captain Wragge expressed his intention of
      asking the housekeeper a few sympathizing questions on the subject of her
      invalid brother in Switzerland. He was of opinion that the critical
      condition of this gentleman&rsquo;s health might exercise an important influence
      on the future progress of the conspiracy. Any chance of a separation, he
      remarked, between the housekeeper and her master was, under existing
      circumstances, a chance which merited the closest investigation. &ldquo;If we
      can only get Mrs. Lecount out of the way at the right time,&rdquo; whispered the
      captain, as he opened his host&rsquo;s garden gate, &ldquo;our man is caught!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In a minute more Magdalen was again under Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s roof; this time
      in the character of his own invited guest.
    </p>
    <p>
      The proceedings of the evening were for the most part a repetition of the
      proceedings during the morning walk. Noel Vanstone vibrated between his
      admiration of Magdalen&rsquo;s beauty and his glorification of his own
      possessions. Captain Wragge&rsquo;s inexhaustible outbursts of information&mdash;relieved
      by delicately-indirect inquiries relating to Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s brother&mdash;perpetually
      diverted the housekeeper&rsquo;s jealous vigilance from dwelling on the looks
      and language of her master. So the evening passed until ten o&rsquo;clock. By
      that time the captain&rsquo;s ready-made science was exhausted, and the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s temper was forcing its way to the surface. Once more Captain
      Wragge warned Magdalen by a look, and, in spite of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      hospitable protest, wisely rose to say good-night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have got my information,&rdquo; remarked the captain on the way back. &ldquo;Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s brother lives at Zurich. He is a bachelor; he possesses a little
      money, and his sister is his nearest relation. If he will only be so
      obliging as to break up altogether, he will save us a world of trouble
      with Mrs. Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was a fine moonlight night. He looked round at Magdalen, as he said
      those words, to see if her intractable depression of spirits had seized on
      her again.
    </p>
    <p>
      No! her variable humor had changed once more. She looked about her with a
      flaunting, feverish gayety; she scoffed at the bare idea of any serious
      difficulty with Mrs. Lecount; she mimicked Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s high-pitched
      voice, and repeated Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s high-flown compliments, with a bitter
      enjoyment of turning him into ridicule. Instead of running into the house
      as before, she sauntered carelessly by her companion&rsquo;s side, humming
      little snatches of song, and kicking the loose pebbles right and left on
      the garden-walk. Captain Wragge hailed the change in her as the best of
      good omens. He thought he saw plain signs that the family spirit was at
      last coming back again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well,&rdquo; he said, as he lit her bedroom candle for her, &ldquo;when we all meet
      on the Parade tomorrow, we shall see, as our nautical friends say, how the
      land lies. One thing I can tell you, my dear girl&mdash;I have used my
      eyes to very little purpose if there is not a storm brewing tonight in Mr.
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s domestic atmosphere.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s habitual penetration had not misled him. As soon as the door
      of Sea-view Cottage was closed on the parting guests, Mrs. Lecount made an
      effort to assert the authority which Magdalen&rsquo;s influence was threatening
      already.
    </p>
    <p>
      She employed every artifice of which she was mistress to ascertain
      Magdalen&rsquo;s true position in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s estimation. She tried again
      and again to lure him into an unconscious confession of the pleasure which
      he felt already in the society of the beautiful Miss Bygrave; she twined
      herself in and out of every weakness in his character, as the frogs and
      efts twined themselves in and out of the rock-work of her Aquarium. But
      she made one serious mistake which very clever people in their intercourse
      with their intellectual inferiors are almost universally apt to commit&mdash;she
      trusted implicitly to the folly of a fool. She forgot that one of the
      lowest of human qualities&mdash;cunning&mdash;is exactly the capacity
      which is often most largely developed in the lowest of intellectual
      natures. If she had been honestly angry with her master, she would
      probably have frightened him. If she had opened her mind plainly to his
      view, she would have astonished him by presenting a chain of ideas to his
      limited perceptions which they were not strong enough to grasp; his
      curiosity would have led him to ask for an explanation; and by practicing
      on that curiosity, she might have had him at her mercy. As it was, she set
      her cunning against his, and the fool proved a match for her. Noel
      Vanstone, to whom all large-minded motives under heaven were inscrutable
      mysteries, saw the small-minded motive at the bottom of his housekeeper&rsquo;s
      conduct with as instantaneous a penetration as if he had been a man of the
      highest ability. Mrs. Lecount left him for the night, foiled, and knowing
      she was foiled&mdash;left him, with the tigerish side of her uppermost,
      and a low-lived longing in her elegant finger-nails to set them in her
      master&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      She was not a woman to be beaten by one defeat or by a hundred. She was
      positively determined to think, and think again, until she had found a
      means of checking the growing intimacy with the Bygraves at once and
      forever. In the solitude of her own room she recovered her composure, and
      set herself for the first time to review the conclusions which she had
      gathered from the events of the day.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was something vaguely familiar to her in the voice of this Miss
      Bygrave, and, at the same time, in unaccountable contradiction, something
      strange to her as well. The face and figure of the young lady were
      entirely new to her. It was a striking face, and a striking figure; and if
      she had seen either at any former period, she would certainly have
      remembered it. Miss Bygrave was unquestionably a stranger; and yet&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      She had got no further than this during the day; she could get no further
      now: the chain of thought broke. Her mind took up the fragments, and
      formed another chain which attached itself to the lady who was kept in
      seclusion&mdash;to the aunt, who looked well, and yet was nervous; who was
      nervous, and yet able to ply her needle and thread. An incomprehensible
      resemblance to some unremembered voice in the niece; an unintelligible
      malady which kept the aunt secluded from public view; an extraordinary
      range of scientific cultivation in the uncle, associated with a coarseness
      and audacity of manner which by no means suggested the idea of a man
      engaged in studious pursuits&mdash;were the members of this small family
      of three what they seemed on the surface of them?
    </p>
    <p>
      With that question on her mind, she went to bed.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as the candle was out, the darkness seemed to communicate some
      inexplicable perversity to her thoughts. They wandered back from present
      things to past, in spite of her. They brought her old master back to life
      again; they revived forgotten sayings and doings in the English circle at
      Zurich; they veered away to the old man&rsquo;s death-bed at Brighton; they
      moved from Brighton to London; they entered the bare, comfortless room at
      Vauxhall Walk; they set the Aquarium back in its place on the kitchen
      table, and put the false Miss Garth in the chair by the side of it,
      shading her inflamed eyes from the light; they placed the anonymous
      letter, the letter which glanced darkly at a conspiracy, in her hand
      again, and brought her with it into her master&rsquo;s presence; they recalled
      the discussion about filling in the blank space in the advertisement, and
      the quarrel that followed when she told Noel Vanstone that the sum he had
      offered was preposterously small; they revived an old doubt which had not
      troubled her for weeks past&mdash;a doubt whether the threatened
      conspiracy had evaporated in mere words, or whether she and her master
      were likely to hear of it again. At this point her thoughts broke off once
      more, and there was a momentary blank. The next instant she started up in
      bed; her heart beating violently, her head whirling as if she had lost her
      senses. With electric suddenness her mind pieced together its scattered
      multitude of thoughts, and put them before her plainly under one
      intelligible form. In the all-mastering agitation of the moment, she
      clapped her hands together, and cried out suddenly in the darkness:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss Vanstone again!!!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She got out of bed and kindled the light once more. Steady as her nerves
      were, the shock of her own suspicion had shaken them. Her firm hand
      trembled as she opened her dressing-case and took from it a little bottle
      of sal-volatile. In spite of her smooth cheeks and her well-preserved
      hair, she looked every year of her age as she mixed the spirit with water,
      greedily drank it, and, wrapping her dressing-gown round her, sat down on
      the bedside to get possession again of her calmer self.
    </p>
    <p>
      She was quite incapable of tracing the mental process which had led her to
      discovery. She could not get sufficiently far from herself to see that her
      half-formed conclusions on the subject of the Bygraves had ended in making
      that family objects of suspicion to her; that the association of ideas had
      thereupon carried her mind back to that other object of suspicion which
      was represented by the conspiracy against her master; and that the two
      ideas of those two separate subjects of distrust, coming suddenly in
      contact, had struck the light. She was not able to reason back in this way
      from the effect to the cause. She could only feel that the suspicion had
      become more than a suspicion already: conviction itself could not have
      been more firmly rooted in her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Looking back at Magdalen by the new light now thrown on her, Mrs. Lecount
      would fain have persuaded herself that she recognized some traces left of
      the false Miss Garth&rsquo;s face and figure in the graceful and beautiful girl
      who had sat at her master&rsquo;s table hardly an hour since&mdash;that she
      found resemblances now, which she had never thought of before, between the
      angry voice she had heard in Vauxhall Walk and the smooth, well-bred tones
      which still hung on her ears after the evening&rsquo;s experience downstairs.
      She would fain have persuaded herself that she had reached these results
      with no undue straining of the truth as she really knew it, but the effort
      was in vain.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount was not a woman to waste time and thought in trying to impose
      on herself. She accepted the inevitable conclusion that the guesswork of a
      moment had led her to discovery. And, more than that, she recognized the
      plain truth&mdash;unwelcome as it was&mdash;that the conviction now fixed
      in her own mind was thus far unsupported by a single fragment of
      producible evidence to justify it to the minds of others.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under these circumstances, what was the safe course to take with her
      master?
    </p>
    <p>
      If she candidly told him, when they met the next morning, what had passed
      through her mind that night, her knowledge of Noel Vanstone warned her
      that one of two results would certainly happen. Either he would be angry
      and disputatious; would ask for proofs; and, finding none forthcoming,
      would accuse her of alarming him without a cause, to serve her own jealous
      end of keeping Magdalen out of the house; or he would be seriously
      startled, would clamor for the protection of the law, and would warn the
      Bygraves to stand on their defense at the outset. If Magdalen only had
      been concerned in the plot this latter consequence would have assumed no
      great importance in the housekeeper&rsquo;s mind. But seeing the deception as
      she now saw it, she was far too clever a woman to fail in estimating the
      captain&rsquo;s inexhaustible fertility of resource at its true value. &ldquo;If I
      can&rsquo;t meet this impudent villain with plain proofs to help me,&rdquo; thought
      Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;I may open my master&rsquo;s eyes to-morrow morning, and Mr.
      Bygrave will shut them up again before night. The rascal is playing with
      all his own cards under the table, and he will win the game to a
      certainty, if he sees my hand at starting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This policy of waiting was so manifestly the wise policy&mdash;the wily
      Mr. Bygrave was so sure to have provided himself, in case of emergency,
      with evidence to prove the identity which he and his niece had assumed for
      their purpose&mdash;that Mrs. Lecount at once decided to keep her own
      counsel the next morning, and to pause before attacking the conspiracy
      until she could produce unanswerable facts to help her. Her master&rsquo;s
      acquaintance with the Bygraves was only an acquaintance of one day&rsquo;s
      standing. There was no fear of its developing into a dangerous intimacy if
      she merely allowed it to continue for a few days more, and if she
      permanently checked it, at the latest, in a week&rsquo;s time.
    </p>
    <p>
      In that period what measures could she take to remove the obstacles which
      now stood in her way, and to provide herself with the weapons which she
      now wanted?
    </p>
    <p>
      Reflection showed her three different chances in her favor&mdash;three
      different ways of arriving at the necessary discovery.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first chance was to cultivate friendly terms with Magdalen, and then,
      taking her unawares, to entrap her into betraying herself in Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s presence. The second chance was to write to the elder Miss
      Vanstone, and to ask (with some alarming reason for putting the question)
      for information on the subject of her younger sister&rsquo;s whereabouts, and of
      any peculiarities in her personal appearance which might enable a stranger
      to identify her. The third chance was to penetrate the mystery of Mrs.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s seclusion, and to ascertain at a personal interview whether the
      invalid lady&rsquo;s real complaint might not possibly be a defective capacity
      for keeping her husband&rsquo;s secrets. Resolving to try all three chances, in
      the order in which they are here enumerated, and to set her snares for
      Magdalen on the day that was now already at hand, Mrs. Lecount at last
      took off her dressing-gown and allowed her weaker nature to plead with her
      for a little sleep.
    </p>
    <p>
      The dawn was breaking over the cold gray sea as she lay down in her bed
      again. The last idea in her mind before she fell asleep was characteristic
      of the woman&mdash;it was an idea that threatened the captain. &ldquo;He has
      trifled with the sacred memory of my husband,&rdquo; thought the Professor&rsquo;s
      widow. &ldquo;On my life and honor, I will make him pay for it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Early the next morning Magdalen began the day, according to her agreement
      with the captain, by taking Mrs. Wragge out for a little exercise at an
      hour when there was no fear of her attracting the public attention. She
      pleaded hard to be left at home; having the Oriental Cashmere Robe still
      on her mind, and feeling it necessary to read her directions for
      dressmaking, for the hundredth time at least, before (to use her own
      expression) she could &ldquo;screw up her courage to put the scissors into the
      stuff.&rdquo; But her companion would take no denial, and she was forced to go
      out. The one guileless purpose of the life which Magdalen now led was the
      resolution that poor Mrs. Wragge should not be made a prisoner on her
      account; and to that resolution she mechanically clung, as the last token
      left her by which she knew her better-self.
    </p>
    <p>
      They returned later than usual to breakfast. While Mrs. Wragge was
      upstairs, straightening herself from head to foot to meet the morning
      inspection of her husband&rsquo;s orderly eye; and while Magdalen and the
      captain were waiting for her in the parlor, the servant came in with a
      note from Sea-view Cottage. The messenger was waiting for an answer, and
      the note was addressed to Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain opened the note and read these lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;Mr. Noel Vanstone desires me to write and tell you that he
      proposes enjoying this fine day by taking a long drive to a place on the
      coast here called Dunwich. He is anxious to know if you will share the
      expense of a carriage, and give him the pleasure of your company and Miss
      Bygrave&rsquo;s company on this excursion. I am kindly permitted to be one of
      the party; and if I may say so without impropriety, I would venture to add
      that I shall feel as much pleasure as my master if you and your young lady
      will consent to join us. We propose leaving Aldborough punctually at
      eleven o&rsquo;clock. Believe me, dear sir, your humble servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VIRGINIE LECOUNT.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who is the letter from?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, noticing a change in Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s face as he read it. &ldquo;What do they want with us at Sea-view
      Cottage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me,&rdquo; said the captain, gravely, &ldquo;this requires consideration. Let
      me have a minute or two to think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He took a few turns up and down the room, then suddenly stepped aside to a
      table in a corner on which his writing materials were placed. &ldquo;I was not
      born yesterday, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; said the captain, speaking jocosely to himself. He
      winked his brown eye, took up his pen, and wrote the answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can you speak now?&rdquo; inquired Magdalen, when the servant had left the
      room. &ldquo;What does that letter say, and how have you answered it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain placed the letter in her hand. &ldquo;I have accepted the
      invitation,&rdquo; he replied, quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen read the letter. &ldquo;Hidden enmity yesterday,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and open
      friendship to-day. What does it mean?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It means,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, &ldquo;that Mrs. Lecount is even sharper than I
      thought her. She has found you out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Impossible,&rdquo; cried Magdalen. &ldquo;Quite impossible in the time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t say <i>how</i> she has found you out,&rdquo; proceeded the captain,
      with perfect composure. &ldquo;She may know more of your voice than we supposed
      she knew. Or she may have thought us, on reflection, rather a suspicious
      family; and anything suspicious in which a woman was concerned may have
      taken her mind back to that morning call of yours in Vauxhall Walk.
      Whichever way it may be, the meaning of this sudden change is clear
      enough. She has found you out; and she wants to put her discovery to the
      proof by slipping in an awkward question or two, under cover of a little
      friendly talk. My experience of humanity has been a varied one, and Mrs.
      Lecount is not the first sharp practitioner in petticoats whom I have had
      to deal with. All the world&rsquo;s a stage, my dear girl, and one of the scenes
      on our little stage is shut in from this moment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words he took his copy of Joyce&rsquo;s Scientific Dialogues out of
      his pocket. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re done with already, my friend!&rdquo; said the captain,
      giving his useful information a farewell smack with his hand, and locking
      it up in the cupboard. &ldquo;Such is human popularity!&rdquo; continued the
      indomitable vagabond, putting the key cheerfully in his pocket. &ldquo;Yesterday
      Joyce was my all-in-all. To-day I don&rsquo;t care that for him!&rdquo; He snapped his
      fingers and sat down to breakfast.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand you,&rdquo; said Magdalen, looking at him angrily. &ldquo;Are you
      leaving me to my own resources for the future?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear girl!&rdquo; cried Captain Wragge, &ldquo;can&rsquo;t you accustom yourself to my
      dash of humor yet? I have done with my ready-made science simply because I
      am quite sure that Mrs. Lecount has done believing in me. Haven&rsquo;t I
      accepted the invitation to Dunwich? Make your mind easy. The help I have
      given you already counts for nothing compared with the help I am going to
      give you now. My honor is concerned in bowling out Mrs. Lecount. This last
      move of hers has made it a personal matter between us. <i>The woman
      actually thinks she can take me in!!!</i>&rdquo; cried the captain, striking his
      knife-handle on the table in a transport of virtuous indignation. &ldquo;By
      heavens, I never was so insulted before in my life! Draw your chair in to
      the table, my dear, and give me half a minute&rsquo;s attention to what I have
      to say next.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen obeyed him. Captain Wragge cautiously lowered his voice before he
      went on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have told you all along,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;the one thing needful is never to
      let Mrs. Lecount catch you with your wits wool-gathering. I say the same
      after what has happened this morning. Let her suspect you! I defy her to
      find a fragment of foundation for her suspicions, unless we help her. We
      shall see to-day if she has been foolish enough to betray herself to her
      master before she has any facts to support her. I doubt it. If she has
      told him, we will rain down proofs of our identity with the Bygraves on
      his feeble little head till it absolutely aches with conviction. You have
      two things to do on this excursion. First, to distrust every word Mrs.
      Lecount says to you. Secondly, to exert all your fascinations, and make
      sure of Mr. Noel Vanstone, dating from to-day. I will give you the
      opportunity when we leave the carriage and take our walk at Dunwich. Wear
      your hat, wear your smile; do your figure justice, lace tight; put on your
      neatest boots and brightest gloves; tie the miserable little wretch to
      your apron-string&mdash;tie him fast; and leave the whole management of
      the matter after that to me. Steady! here is Mrs. Wragge: we must be
      doubly careful in looking after her now. Show me your cap, Mrs. Wragge!
      show me your shoes! What do I see on your apron? A spot? I won&rsquo;t have
      spots! Take it off after breakfast, and put on another. Pull your chair to
      the middle of the table&mdash;more to the left&mdash;more still. Make the
      breakfast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At a quarter before eleven Mrs. Wragge (with her own entire concurrence)
      was dismissed to the back room, to bewilder herself over the science of
      dressmaking for the rest of the day. Punctually as the clock struck the
      hour, Mrs. Lecount and her master drove up to the gate of North Shingles,
      and found Magdalen and Captain Wragge waiting for them in the garden.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the way to Dunwich nothing occurred to disturb the enjoyment of the
      drive. Noel Vanstone was in excellent health and high good-humor. Lecount
      had apologized for the little misunderstanding of the previous night;
      Lecount had petitioned for the excursion as a treat to herself. He thought
      of these concessions, and looked at Magdalen, and smirked and simpered
      without intermission. Mrs. Lecount acted her part to perfection. She was
      motherly with Magdalen and tenderly attentive to Noel Vanstone. She was
      deeply interested in Captain Wragge&rsquo;s conversation, and meekly
      disappointed to find it turn on general subjects, to the exclusion of
      science. Not a word or look escaped her which hinted in the remotest
      degree at her real purpose. She was dressed with her customary elegance
      and propriety; and she was the only one of the party on that sultry
      summer&rsquo;s day who was perfectly cool in the hottest part of the journey.
    </p>
    <p>
      As they left the carriage on their arrival at Dunwich, the captain seized
      a moment when Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s eye was off him and fortified Magdalen by a
      last warning word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Ware the cat!&rdquo; he whispered. &ldquo;She will show her claws on the way back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They left the village and walked to the ruins of a convent near at hand&mdash;the
      last relic of the once populous city of Dunwich which has survived the
      destruction of the place, centuries since, by the all-devouring sea. After
      looking at the ruins, they sought the shade of a little wood between the
      village and the low sand-hills which overlook the German Ocean. Here
      Captain Wragge maneuvered so as to let Magdalen and Noel Vanstone advance
      some distance in front of Mrs. Lecount and himself, took the wrong path,
      and immediately lost his way with the most consummate dexterity. After a
      few minutes&rsquo; wandering (in the wrong direction), he reached an open space
      near the sea; and politely opening his camp-stool for the housekeeper&rsquo;s
      accommodation, proposed waiting where they were until the missing members
      of the party came that way and discovered them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount accepted the proposal. She was perfectly well aware that her
      escort had lost himself on purpose, but that discovery exercised no
      disturbing influence on the smooth amiability of her manner. Her day of
      reckoning with the captain had not come yet&mdash;she merely added the new
      item to her list, and availed herself of the camp-stool. Captain Wragge
      stretched himself in a romantic attitude at her feet, and the two
      determined enemies (grouped like two lovers in a picture) fell into as
      easy and pleasant a conversation as if they had been friends of twenty
      years&rsquo; standing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know you, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; thought the captain, while Mrs. Lecount was talking
      to him. &ldquo;You would like to catch me tripping in my ready-made science, and
      you wouldn&rsquo;t object to drown me in the Professor&rsquo;s Tank!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You villain with the brown eye and the green!&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount, as
      the captain caught the ball of conversation in his turn; &ldquo;thick as your
      skin is, I&rsquo;ll sting you through it yet!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In this frame of mind toward each other they talked fluently on general
      subjects, on public affairs, on local scenery, on society in England and
      society in Switzerland, on health, climate, books, marriage and money&mdash;talked,
      without a moment&rsquo;s pause, without a single misunderstanding on either side
      for nearly an hour, before Magdalen and Noel Vanstone strayed that way and
      made the party of four complete again.
    </p>
    <p>
      When they reached the inn at which the carriage was waiting for them,
      Captain Wragge left Mrs. Lecount in undisturbed possession of her master,
      and signed to Magdalen to drop back for a moment and speak to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well?&rdquo; asked the captain, in a whisper, &ldquo;is he fast to your
      apron-string?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She shuddered from head to foot as she answered.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He has kissed my hand,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Does that tell you enough? Don&rsquo;t let
      him sit next me on the way home! I have borne all I can bear&mdash;spare
      me for the rest of the day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll put you on the front seat of the carriage,&rdquo; replied the captain,
      &ldquo;side by side with me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On the journey back Mrs. Lecount verified Captain Wragge&rsquo;s prediction. She
      showed her claws.
    </p>
    <p>
      The time could not have been better chosen; the circumstances could hardly
      have favored her more. Magdalen&rsquo;s spirits were depressed: she was weary in
      body and mind; and she sat exactly opposite the housekeeper, who had been
      compelled, by the new arrangement, to occupy the seat of honor next her
      master. With every facility for observing the slightest changes that
      passed over Magdalen&rsquo;s face, Mrs. Lecount tried her first experiment by
      leading the conversation to the subject of London, and to the relative
      advantages offered to residents by the various quarters of the metropolis
      on both sides of the river. The ever-ready Wragge penetrated her intention
      sooner than she had anticipated, and interposed immediately. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re
      coming to Vauxhall Walk, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; thought the captain; &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll get there
      before you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He entered at once into a purely fictitious description of the various
      quarters of London in which he had himself resided; and, adroitly
      mentioning Vauxhall Walk as one of them, saved Magdalen from the sudden
      question relating to that very locality with which Mrs. Lecount had
      proposed startling her, to begin with. From his residences he passed
      smoothly to himself, and poured his whole family history (in the character
      of Mr. Bygrave) into the housekeeper&rsquo;s ears&mdash;not forgetting his
      brother&rsquo;s grave in Honduras, with the monument by the self-taught negro
      artist, and his brother&rsquo;s hugely corpulent widow, on the ground-floor of
      the boarding-house at Cheltenham. As a means of giving Magdalen time to
      compose herself, this outburst of autobiographical information attained
      its object, but it answered no other purpose. Mrs. Lecount listened,
      without being imposed on by a single word the captain said to her. He
      merely confirmed her conviction of the hopelessness of taking Noel
      Vanstone into her confidence before she had facts to help her against
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s otherwise unassailable position in the identity which he
      had assumed. She quietly waited until he had done, and then returned to
      the charge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is a coincidence that your uncle should have once resided in Vauxhall
      Walk,&rdquo; she said, addressing herself to Magdalen. &ldquo;Mr. Noel has a house in
      the same place, and we lived there before we came to Aldborough. May I
      inquire, Miss Bygrave, whether you know anything of a lady named Miss
      Garth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This time she put the question before the captain could interfere.
      Magdalen ought to have been prepared for it by what had already passed in
      her presence, but her nerves had been shaken by the earlier events of the
      day; and she could only answer the question in the negative, after an
      instant&rsquo;s preliminary pause to control herself. Her hesitation was of too
      momentary a nature to attract the attention of any unsuspicious person.
      But it lasted long enough to confirm Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s private convictions,
      and to encourage her to advance a little further.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I only asked,&rdquo; she continued, steadily fixing her eyes on Magdalen,
      steadily disregarding the efforts which Captain Wragge made to join in the
      conversation, &ldquo;because Miss Garth is a stranger to me, and I am curious to
      find out what I can about her. The day before we left town, Miss Bygrave,
      a person who presented herself under the name I have mentioned paid us a
      visit under very extraordinary circumstances.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With a smooth, ingratiating manner, with a refinement of contempt which
      was little less than devilish in its ingenious assumption of the language
      of pity, she now boldly described Magdalen&rsquo;s appearance in disguise in
      Magdalen&rsquo;s own presence. She slightingly referred to the master and
      mistress of Combe-Raven as persons who had always annoyed the elder and
      more respectable branch of the family; she mourned over the children as
      following their parents&rsquo; example, and attempting to take a mercenary
      advantage of Mr. Noel Vanstone, under the protection of a respectable
      person&rsquo;s character and a respectable person&rsquo;s name. Cleverly including her
      master in the conversation, so as to prevent the captain from effecting a
      diversion in that quarter; sparing no petty aggravation; striking at every
      tender place which the tongue of a spiteful woman can wound, she would,
      beyond all doubt, have carried her point, and tortured Magdalen into
      openly betraying herself, if Captain Wragge had not checked her in full
      career by a loud exclamation of alarm, and a sudden clutch at Magdalen&rsquo;s
      wrist.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ten thousand pardons, my dear madam!&rdquo; cried the captain. &ldquo;I see in my
      niece&rsquo;s face, I feel in my niece&rsquo;s pulse, that one of her violent
      neuralgic attacks has come on again. My dear girl, why hesitate among
      friends to confess that you are in pain? What mistimed politeness! Her
      face shows she is suffering&mdash;doesn&rsquo;t it Mrs. Lecount? Darting pains,
      Mr. Vanstone, darting pains on the left side of the head. Pull down your
      veil, my dear, and lean on me. Our friends will excuse you; our excellent
      friends will excuse you for the rest of the day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before Mrs. Lecount could throw an instant&rsquo;s doubt on the genuineness of
      the neuralgic attack, her master&rsquo;s fidgety sympathy declared itself
      exactly as the captain had anticipated, in the most active manifestations.
      He stopped the carriage, and insisted on an immediate change in the
      arrangement of the places&mdash;the comfortable back seat for Miss Bygrave
      and her uncle, the front seat for Lecount and himself. Had Lecount got her
      smelling-bottle? Excellent creature! let her give it directly to Miss
      Bygrave, and let the coachman drive carefully. If the coachman shook Miss
      Bygrave he should not have a half-penny for himself. Mesmerism was
      frequently useful in these cases. Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s father had been the
      most powerful mesmerist in Europe, and Mr. Noel Vanstone was his father&rsquo;s
      son. Might he mesmerize? Might he order that infernal coachman to draw up
      in a shady place adapted for the purpose? Would medical help be preferred?
      Could medical help be found any nearer than Aldborough? That ass of a
      coachman didn&rsquo;t know. Stop every respectable man who passed in a gig, and
      ask him if he was a doctor! So Mr. Noel Vanstone ran on, with brief
      intervals for breathing-time, in a continually-ascending scale of sympathy
      and self-importance, throughout the drive home.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount accepted her defeat without uttering a word. From the moment
      when Captain Wragge interrupted her, her thin lips closed and opened no
      more for the remainder of the journey. The warmest expressions of her
      master&rsquo;s anxiety for the suffering young lady provoked from her no outward
      manifestations of anger. She took as little notice of him as possible. She
      paid no attention whatever to the captain, whose exasperating
      consideration for his vanquished enemy made him more polite to her than
      ever. The nearer and the nearer they got to Aldborough the more and more
      fixedly Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s hard black eyes looked at Magdalen reclining on the
      opposite seat, with her eyes closed and her veil down.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was only when the carriage stopped at North Shingles, and when Captain
      Wragge was handing Magdalen out, that the housekeeper at last condescended
      to notice him. As he smiled and took off his hat at the carriage door, the
      strong restraint she had laid on herself suddenly gave way, and she
      flashed one look at him which scorched up the captain&rsquo;s politeness on the
      spot. He turned at once, with a hasty acknowledgment of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      last sympathetic inquiries, and took Magdalen into the house. &ldquo;I told you
      she would show her claws,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It is not my fault that she scratched
      you before I could stop her. She hasn&rsquo;t hurt you, has she?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has hurt me, to some purpose,&rdquo; said Magdalen&mdash;&ldquo;she has given me
      the courage to go on. Say what must be done to-morrow, and trust me to do
      it.&rdquo; She sighed heavily as she said those words, and went up to her room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge walked meditatively into the parlor, and sat down to
      consider. He felt by no means so certain as he could have wished of the
      next proceeding on the part of the enemy after the defeat of that day. The
      housekeeper&rsquo;s farewell look had plainly informed him that she was not at
      the end of her resources yet, and the old militia-man felt the full
      importance of preparing himself in good time to meet the next step which
      she took in advance. He lit a cigar, and bent his wary mind on the dangers
      of the future.
    </p>
    <p>
      While Captain Wragge was considering in the parlor at North Shingles, Mrs.
      Lecount was meditating in her bedroom at Sea View. Her exasperation at the
      failure of her first attempt to expose the conspiracy had not blinded her
      to the instant necessity of making a second effort before Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      growing infatuation got beyond her control. The snare set for Magdalen
      having failed, the chance of entrapping Magdalen&rsquo;s sister was the next
      chance to try. Mrs. Lecount ordered a cup of tea, opened her writing-case,
      and began the rough draft of a letter to be sent to Miss Vanstone, the
      elder, by the morrow&rsquo;s post.
    </p>
    <p>
      So the day&rsquo;s skirmish ended. The heat of the battle was yet to come.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VI.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ALL human penetration has its limits. Accurately as Captain Wragge had
      seen his way hitherto, even his sharp insight was now at fault. He
      finished his cigar with the mortifying conviction that he was totally
      unprepared for Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s next proceeding. In this emergency, his
      experience warned him that there was one safe course, and one only, which
      he could take. He resolved to try the confusing effect on the housekeeper
      of a complete change of tactics before she had time to press her advantage
      and attack him in the dark. With this view he sent the servant upstairs to
      request that Miss Bygrave would come down and speak to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope I don&rsquo;t disturb you,&rdquo; said the captain, when Magdalen entered the
      room. &ldquo;Allow me to apologize for the smell of tobacco, and to say two
      words on the subject of our next proceedings. To put it with my customary
      frankness, Mrs. Lecount puzzles me, and I propose to return the compliment
      by puzzling her. The course of action which I have to suggest is a very
      simple one. I have had the honor of giving you a severe neuralgic attack
      already, and I beg your permission (when Mr. Noel Vanstone sends to
      inquire to-morrow morning) to take the further liberty of laying you up
      altogether. Question from Sea-view Cottage: &lsquo;How is Miss Bygrave this
      morning?&rsquo; Answer from North Shingles: &lsquo;Much worse: Miss Bygrave is
      confined to her room.&rsquo; Question repeated every day, say for a fortnight:
      &lsquo;How is Miss Bygrave?&rsquo; Answer repeated, if necessary, for the same time:
      &lsquo;No better.&rsquo; Can you bear the imprisonment? I see no objection to your
      getting a breath of fresh air the first thing in the morning, or the last
      thing at night. But for the whole of the day, there is no disguising it,
      you must put yourself in the same category with Mrs. Wragge&mdash;you must
      keep your room.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is your object in wishing me to do this?&rdquo; inquired Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My object is twofold,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;I blush for my own
      stupidity; but the fact is, I can&rsquo;t see my way plainly to Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      next move. All I feel sure of is, that she means to make another attempt
      at opening her master&rsquo;s eyes to the truth. Whatever means she may employ
      to discover your identity, personal communication with you <i>must</i> be
      necessary to the accomplishment of her object. Very good. If I stop that
      communication, I put an obstacle in her way at starting&mdash;or, as we
      say at cards, I force her hand. Do you see the point?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen saw it plainly. The captain went on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My second reason for shutting you up,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;refers entirely to Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s master. The growth of love, my dear girl, is, in one respect,
      unlike all other growths&mdash;it flourishes under adverse circumstances.
      Our first course of action is to make Mr. Noel Vanstone feel the charm of
      your society. Our next is to drive him distracted by the loss of it. I
      should have proposed a few more meetings, with a view to furthering this
      end, but for our present critical position toward Mrs. Lecount. As it is,
      we must trust to the effect you produced yesterday, and try the experiment
      of a sudden separation rather sooner than I could have otherwise wished. I
      shall see Mr. Noel Vanstone, though you don&rsquo;t; and if there <i>is</i> a
      raw place established anywhere about the region of that gentleman&rsquo;s heart,
      trust me to hit him on it! You are now in full possession of my views.
      Take your time to consider, and give me your answer&mdash;Yes or no.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Any change is for the better,&rdquo; said Magdalen &ldquo;which keeps me out of the
      company of Mrs. Lecount and her master! Let it be as you wish.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had hitherto answered faintly and wearily; but she spoke those last
      words with a heightened tone and a rising color&mdash;signs which warned
      Captain Wragge not to press her further.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;As usual, we understand each other. I see
      you are tired; and I won&rsquo;t detain you any longer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He rose to open the door, stopped half-way to it, and came back again.
      &ldquo;Leave me to arrange matters with the servant downstairs,&rdquo; he continued.
      &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t absolutely keep your bed, and we must purchase the girl&rsquo;s
      discretion when she answers the door, without taking her into our
      confidence, of course. I will make her understand that she is to say you
      are ill, just as she might say you are not at home, as a way of keeping
      unwelcome acquaintances out of the house. Allow me to open the door for
      you&mdash;I beg your pardon, you are going into Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s work-room
      instead of going to your own.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know I am,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I wish to remove Mrs. Wragge from the
      miserable room she is in now, and to take her upstairs with me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the evening?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For the whole fortnight.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge followed her into the dining-room, and wisely closed the
      door before he spoke again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you seriously mean to inflict my wife&rsquo;s society on yourself for a
      fortnight?&rdquo; he asked, in great surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your wife is the only innocent creature in this guilty house,&rdquo; she burst
      out vehemently. &ldquo;I must and will have her with me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray don&rsquo;t agitate yourself,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Take Mrs. Wragge, by all
      means. I don&rsquo;t want her.&rdquo; Having resigned the partner of his existence in
      those terms, he discreetly returned to the parlor. &ldquo;The weakness of the
      sex!&rdquo; thought the captain, tapping his sagacious head. &ldquo;Lay a strain on
      the female intellect, and the female temper gives way directly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The strain to which the captain alluded was not confined that evening to
      the female intellect at North Shingles: it extended to the female
      intellect at Sea View. For nearly two hours Mrs. Lecount sat at her desk
      writing, correcting, and writing again, before she could produce a letter
      to Miss Vanstone, the elder, which exactly accomplished the object she
      wanted to attain. At last the rough draft was completed to her
      satisfaction; and she made a fair copy of it forthwith, to be posted the
      next day.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her letter thus produced was a masterpiece of ingenuity. After the first
      preliminary sentences, the housekeeper plainly informed Norah of the
      appearance of the visitor in disguise at Vauxhall Walk; of the
      conversation which passed at the interview; and of her own suspicion that
      the person claiming to be Miss Garth was, in all probability, the younger
      Miss Vanstone herself. Having told the truth thus far, Mrs. Lecount next
      proceeded to say that her master was in possession of evidence which would
      justify him in putting the law in force; that he knew the conspiracy with
      which he was threatened to be then in process of direction against him at
      Aldborough; and that he only hesitated to protect himself in deference to
      family considerations, and in the hope that the elder Miss Vanstone might
      so influence her sister as to render it unnecessary to proceed to
      extremities.
    </p>
    <p>
      Under these circumstances (the letter continued) it was plainly necessary
      that the disguised visitor to Vauxhall Walk should be properly identified;
      for if Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s guess proved to be wrong, and if the person turned
      out to be a stranger, Mr. Noel Vanstone was positively resolved to
      prosecute in his own defense. Events at Aldborough, on which it was not
      necessary to dwell, would enable Mrs. Lecount in a few days to gain sight
      of the suspected person in her own character. But as the housekeeper was
      entirely unacquainted with the younger Miss Vanstone, it was obviously
      desirable that some better informed person should, in this particular,
      take the matter in hand. If the elder Miss Vanstone happened to be at
      liberty to come to Aldborough herself, would she kindly write and say so?
      and Mrs. Lecount would write back again to appoint a day. If, on the other
      hand, Miss Vanstone was prevented from taking the journey, Mrs. Lecount
      suggested that her reply should contain the fullest description of her
      sister&rsquo;s personal appearance&mdash;should mention any little peculiarities
      which might exist in the way of marks on her face or her hands&mdash;and
      should state (in case she had written lately) what the address was in her
      last letter, and failing that, what the post-mark was on the envelope.
      With this information to help her, Mrs. Lecount would, in the interest of
      the misguided young lady herself, accept the responsibility of privately
      identifying her, and would write back immediately to acquaint the elder
      Miss Vanstone with the result.
    </p>
    <p>
      The difficulty of sending this letter to the right address gave Mrs.
      Lecount very little trouble. Remembering the name of the lawyer who had
      pleaded the cause of the two sisters in Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s time, she
      directed her letter to &ldquo;Miss Vanstone, care of&mdash;&mdash;Pendril,
      Esquire, London.&rdquo; This she inclosed in a second envelope, addressed to Mr.
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s solicitor, with a line inside, requesting that gentleman
      to send it at once to the office of Mr. Pendril.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now,&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount, as she locked the letter up in her desk,
      preparatory to posting it the next day with her own hand, &ldquo;now I have got
      her!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next morning the servant from Sea View came, with her master&rsquo;s
      compliments, to make inquiries after Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s health. Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s bulletin was duly announced&mdash;Miss Bygrave was so ill as to
      be confined to her room.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the reception of this intelligence, Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s anxiety led him to
      call at North Shingles himself when he went out for his afternoon walk.
      Miss Bygrave was no better. He inquired if he could see Mr. Bygrave. The
      worthy captain was prepared to meet this emergency. He thought a little
      irritating suspense would do Noel Vanstone no harm, and he had carefully
      charged the servant, in case of necessity, with her answer: &ldquo;Mr. Bygrave
      begged to be excused; he was not able to see any one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On the second day inquiries were made as before, by message in the
      morning, and by Noel Vanstone himself in the afternoon. The morning answer
      (relating to Magdalen) was, &ldquo;a shade better.&rdquo; The afternoon answer
      (relating to Captain Wragge) was, &ldquo;Mr. Bygrave has just gone out.&rdquo; That
      evening Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s temper was very uncertain, and Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      patience and tact were sorely tried in the effort to avoid offending him.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the third morning the report of the suffering young lady was less
      favorable&mdash;&ldquo;Miss Bygrave was still very poorly, and not able to leave
      her bed.&rdquo; The servant returning to Sea View with this message, met the
      postman, and took into the breakfast-room with her two letters addressed
      to Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first letter was in a handwriting familiar to the housekeeper. It was
      from the medical attendant on her invalid brother at Zurich; and it
      announced that the patient&rsquo;s malady had latterly altered in so marked a
      manner for the better that there was every hope now of preserving his
      life.
    </p>
    <p>
      The address on the second letter was in a strange handwriting. Mrs.
      Lecount, concluding that it was the answer from Miss Vanstone, waited to
      read it until breakfast was over, and she could retire to her own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She opened the letter, looked at once for the name at the end, and started
      a little as she read it. The signature was not &ldquo;Norah Vanstone,&rdquo; but
      &ldquo;Harriet Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Miss Garth announced that the elder Miss Vanstone had, a week since,
      accepted an engagement as governess, subject to the condition of joining
      the family of her employer at their temporary residence in the south of
      France, and of returning with them when they came back to England,
      probably in a month or six weeks&rsquo; time. During the interval of this
      necessary absence Miss Vanstone had requested Miss Garth to open all her
      letters, her main object in making that arrangement being to provide for
      the speedy answering of any communication which might arrive for her from
      her sister. Miss Magdalen Vanstone had not written since the middle of
      July&mdash;on which occasion the postmark on the letter showed that it
      must have been posted in London, in the district of Lambeth&mdash;and her
      elder sister had left England in a state of the most distressing anxiety
      on her account.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having completed this explanation, Miss Garth then mentioned that family
      circumstances prevented her from traveling personally to Aldborough to
      assist Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s object, but that she was provided with a substitute;
      in every way fitter for the purpose, in the person of Mr. Pendril. That
      gentleman was well acquainted with Miss Magdalen Vanstone, and his
      professional experience and discretion would render his assistance doubly
      valuable. He had kindly consented to travel to Aldborough whenever it
      might be thought necessary. But as his time was very valuable, Miss Garth
      specially requested that he might not be sent for until Mrs. Lecount was
      quite sure of the day on which his services might be required.
    </p>
    <p>
      While proposing this arrangement, Miss Garth added that she thought it
      right to furnish her correspondent with a written description of the
      younger Miss Vanstone as well. An emergency might happen which would allow
      Mrs. Lecount no time for securing Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s services; and the
      execution of Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s intentions toward the unhappy girl who
      was the object of his forbearance might be fatally delayed by an
      unforeseen difficulty in establishing her identity. The personal
      description, transmitted under these circumstances, then followed. It
      omitted no personal peculiarity by which Magdalen could be recognized, and
      it included the &ldquo;two little moles close together on the left side of the
      neck,&rdquo; which had been formerly mentioned in the printed handbills sent to
      York.
    </p>
    <p>
      In conclusion, Miss Garth expressed her fears that Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      suspicions were only too likely to be proved true. While, however, there
      was the faintest chance that the conspiracy might turn out to be directed
      by a stranger, Miss Garth felt bound, in gratitude toward Mr. Noel
      Vanstone, to assist the legal proceedings which would in that case be
      instituted. She accordingly appended her own formal denial&mdash;which she
      would personally repeat if necessary&mdash;of any identity between herself
      and the person in disguise who had made use of her name. She was the Miss
      Garth who had filled the situation of the late Mr. Andrew Vanstone&rsquo;s
      governess, and she had never in her life been in, or near, the
      neighborhood of Vauxhall Wall.
    </p>
    <p>
      With this disclaimer, and with the writer&rsquo;s fervent assurances that she
      would do all for Magdalen&rsquo;s advantage which her sister might have done if
      her sister had been in England, the letter concluded. It was signed in
      full, and was dated with the business-like accuracy in such matters which
      had always distinguished Miss Garth&rsquo;s character.
    </p>
    <p>
      This letter placed a formidable weapon in the housekeeper&rsquo;s hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      It provided a means of establishing Magdalen&rsquo;s identity through the
      intervention of a lawyer by profession. It contained a personal
      description minute enough to be used to advantage, if necessary, before
      Mr. Pendril&rsquo;s appearance. It presented a signed exposure of the false Miss
      Garth under the hand of the true Miss Garth; and it established the fact
      that the last letter received by the elder Miss Vanstone from the younger
      had been posted (and therefore probably written) in the neighborhood of
      Vauxhall Walk. If any later letter had been received with the Aldborough
      postmark, the chain of evidence, so far as the question of localities was
      concerned, might doubtless have been more complete. But as it was, there
      was testimony enough (aided as that testimony might be by the fragment of
      the brown alpaca dress still in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s possession) to raise the
      veil which hung over the conspiracy, and to place Mr. Noel Vanstone face
      to face with the plain and startling truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      The one obstacle which now stood in the way of immediate action on the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s part was the obstacle of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s present seclusion
      within the limits of her own room. The question of gaining personal access
      to her was a question which must be decided before any communication could
      be opened with Mr. Pendril. Mrs. Lecount put on her bonnet at once, and
      called at North Shingles to try what discoveries she could make for
      herself before post-time.
    </p>
    <p>
      On this occasion Mr. Bygrave was at home, and she was admitted without the
      least difficulty.
    </p>
    <p>
      Careful consideration that morning had decided Captain Wragge on
      advancing matters a little nearer to the crisis. The means by which he
      proposed achieving this result made it necessary for him to see the
      housekeeper and her master separately, and to set them at variance by
      producing two totally opposite impressions relating to himself on their
      minds. Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s visit, therefore, instead of causing him any
      embarrassment, was the most welcome occurrence he could have wished for.
      He received her in the parlor with a marked restraint of manner for which
      she was quite unprepared. His ingratiating smile was gone, and an
      impenetrable solemnity of countenance appeared in its stead.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have ventured to intrude on you, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;to express
      the regret with which both my master and I have heard of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s
      illness. Is there no improvement?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; replied the captain, as briefly as possible. &ldquo;My niece is no
      better.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have had some experience, Mr. Bygrave, in nursing. If I could be of any
      use&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, Mrs. Lecount. There is no necessity for our taking advantage
      of your kindness.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This plain answer was followed by a moment&rsquo;s silence. The housekeeper felt
      some little perplexity. What had become of Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s elaborate
      courtesy, and Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s many words? Did he want to offend her? If he
      did, Mrs. Lecount then and there determined that he should not gain his
      object.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I inquire the nature of the illness?&rdquo; she persisted. &ldquo;It is not
      connected, I hope, with our excursion to Dunwich?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I regret to say, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; replied the captain, &ldquo;it began with that
      neuralgic attack in the carriage.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So! so!&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;He doesn&rsquo;t even <i>try</i> to make me
      think the illness a real one; he throws off the mask at starting.&mdash;Is
      it a nervous illness, sir?&rdquo; she added, aloud.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain answered by a solemn affirmative inclination of the head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then you have <i>two</i> nervous sufferers in the house, Mr. Bygrave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am&mdash;two. My wife and my niece.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is rather a strange coincidence of misfortunes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is, ma&rsquo;am. Very strange.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In spite of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s resolution not to be offended, Captain Wragge&rsquo;s
      exasperating insensibility to every stroke she aimed at him began to
      ruffle her. She was conscious of some little difficulty in securing her
      self-possession before she could say anything more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there no immediate hope,&rdquo; she resumed, &ldquo;of Miss Bygrave being able to
      leave her room?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None whatever, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are satisfied, I suppose, with the medical attendance?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no medical attendance,&rdquo; said the captain, composedly. &ldquo;I watch the
      case myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The gathering venom in Mrs. Lecount swelled up at that reply, and
      overflowed at her lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your smattering of science, sir,&rdquo; she said, with a malicious smile,
      &ldquo;includes, I presume, a smattering of medicine as well?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It does, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; answered the captain, without the slightest disturbance
      of face or manner. &ldquo;I know as much of one as I do of the other.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The tone in which he spoke those words left Mrs. Lecount but one dignified
      alternative. She rose to terminate the interview. The temptation of the
      moment proved too much for her, and she could not resist casting the
      shadow of a threat over Captain Wragge at parting.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I defer thanking you, sir, for the manner in which you have received me,&rdquo;
       she said, &ldquo;until I can pay my debt of obligation to some purpose. In the
      meantime I am glad to infer, from the absence of a medical attendant in
      the house, that Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s illness is much less serious than I had
      supposed it to be when I came here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I never contradict a lady, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; rejoined the incorrigible captain. &ldquo;If
      it is your pleasure, when we next meet to think my niece quite well, I
      shall bow resignedly to the expression of your opinion.&rdquo; With those words,
      he followed the housekeeper into the passage, and politely opened the door
      for her. &ldquo;I mark the trick, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; he said to himself, as he closed it
      again. &ldquo;The trump-card in your hand is a sight of my niece, and I&rsquo;ll take
      care you don&rsquo;t play it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He returned to the parlor, and composedly awaited the next event which was
      likely to happen&mdash;a visit from Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s master. In less than an
      hour results justified Captain Wragge&rsquo;s anticipations, and Noel Vanstone
      walked in.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear sir!&rdquo; cried the captain, cordially seizing his visitor&rsquo;s
      reluctant hand, &ldquo;I know what you have come for. Mrs. Lecount has told you
      of her visit here, and has no doubt declared that my niece&rsquo;s illness is a
      mere subterfuge. You feel surprised&mdash;you feel hurt&mdash;you suspect
      me of trifling with your kind sympathies&mdash;in short, you require an
      explanation. That explanation you shall have. Take a seat. Mr. Vanstone. I
      am about to throw myself on your sense and judgment as a man of the world.
      I acknowledge that we are in a false position, sir; and I tell you plainly
      at the outset&mdash;your housekeeper is the cause of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For once in his life, Noel Vanstone opened his eyes. &ldquo;Lecount!&rdquo; he
      exclaimed, in the utmost bewilderment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The same, sir,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge. &ldquo;I am afraid I offended Mrs.
      Lecount, when she came here this morning, by a want of cordiality in my
      manner. I am a plain man, and I can&rsquo;t assume what I don&rsquo;t feel. Far be it
      from me to breathe a word against your housekeeper&rsquo;s character. She is, no
      doubt, a most excellent and trustworthy woman, but she has one serious
      failing common to persons at her time of life who occupy her situation&mdash;she
      is jealous of her influence over her master, although you may not have
      observed it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; interposed Noel Vanstone; &ldquo;my observation is
      remarkably quick. Nothing escapes me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In that case, sir,&rdquo; resumed the captain, &ldquo;you cannot fail to have noticed
      that Mrs. Lecount has allowed her jealousy to affect her conduct toward my
      niece?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone thought of the domestic passage at arms between Mrs. Lecount
      and himself when his guests of the evening had left Sea View, and failed
      to see his way to any direct reply. He expressed the utmost surprise and
      distress&mdash;he thought Lecount had done her best to be agreeable on the
      drive to Dunwich&mdash;he hoped and trusted there was some unfortunate
      mistake.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you mean to say, sir,&rdquo; pursued the captain, severely, &ldquo;that you have
      not noticed the circumstance yourself? As a man of honor and a man of
      observation, you can&rsquo;t tell me that! Your housekeeper&rsquo;s superficial
      civility has not hidden your housekeeper&rsquo;s real feeling. My niece has seen
      it, and so have you, and so have I. My niece, Mr. Vanstone, is a
      sensitive, high-spirited girl; and she has positively declined to
      cultivate Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s society for the future. Don&rsquo;t misunderstand me!
      To my niece as well as to myself, the attraction of <i>your</i> society,
      Mr. Vanstone, remains the same. Miss Bygrave simply declines to be an
      apple of discord (if you will permit the classical allusion) cast into
      your household. I think she is right so far, and I frankly confess that I
      have exaggerated a nervous indisposition, from which she is really
      suffering, into a serious illness&mdash;purely and entirely to prevent
      these two ladies for the present from meeting every day on the Parade, and
      from carrying unpleasant impressions of each other into your domestic
      establishment and mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I allow nothing unpleasant in <i>my</i> establishment,&rdquo; remarked Noel
      Vanstone. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m master&mdash;you must have noticed that already, Mr.
      Bygrave&mdash;I&rsquo;m master.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No doubt of it, my dear sir. But to live morning, noon, and night in the
      perpetual exercise of your authority is more like the life of a governor
      of a prison than the life of a master of a household. The wear and tear&mdash;consider
      the wear and tear.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It strikes you in that light, does it?&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, soothed by
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s ready recognition of his authority. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know that
      you&rsquo;re not right. But I must take some steps directly. I won&rsquo;t be made
      ridiculous&mdash;I&rsquo;ll send Lecount away altogether, sooner than be made
      ridiculous.&rdquo; His color rose, and he folded his little arms fiercely.
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s artfully irritating explanation had awakened that dormant
      suspicion of his housekeeper&rsquo;s influence over him which habitually lay
      hidden in his mind, and which Mrs. Lecount was now not present to charm
      back to repose as usual. &ldquo;What must Miss Bygrave think of me!&rdquo; he
      exclaimed, with a sudden outburst of vexation. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll send Lecount away.
      Damme, I&rsquo;ll send Lecount away on the spot!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no, no!&rdquo; said the captain, whose interest it was to avoid driving
      Mrs. Lecount to any desperate extremities. &ldquo;Why take strong measures when
      mild measures will do? Mrs. Lecount is an old servant; Mrs. Lecount is
      attached and useful. She has this little drawback of jealousy&mdash;jealousy
      of her domestic position with her bachelor master. She sees you paying
      courteous attention to a handsome young lady; she sees that young lady
      properly sensible of your politeness; and, poor soul, she loses her
      temper! What is the obvious remedy? Humor her&mdash;make a manly
      concession to the weaker sex. If Mrs. Lecount is with you, the next time
      we meet on the Parade, walk the other way. If Mrs. Lecount is not with
      you, give us the pleasure of your company by all means. In short, my dear
      sir, try the <i>suaviter in modo</i> (as we classical men say) before you
      commit yourself to the <i>fortiter in re!&rdquo;</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      There was one excellent reason why Noel Vanstone should take Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s conciliatory advice. An open rupture with Mrs. Lecount&mdash;even
      if he could have summoned the courage to face it&mdash;would imply the
      recognition of her claims to a provision, in acknowledgment of the
      services she had rendered to his father and to himself. His sordid nature
      quailed within him at the bare prospect of expressing the emotion of
      gratitude in a pecuniary form; and, after first consulting appearances by
      a show of hesitation, he consented to adopt the captain&rsquo;s suggestion, and
      to humor Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But I must be considered in this matter,&rdquo; proceeded Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;My
      concession to Lecount&rsquo;s weakness must not be misunderstood. Miss Bygrave
      must not be allowed to suppose I am afraid of my housekeeper.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain declared that no such idea ever had entered, or ever could
      enter, Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s mind. Noel Vanstone returned to the subject
      nevertheless, again and again, with his customary pertinacity. Would it be
      indiscreet if he asked leave to set himself right personally with Miss
      Bygrave? Was there any hope that he might have the happiness of seeing her
      on that day? or, if not, on the next day? or if not, on the day after?
      Captain Wragge answered cautiously: he felt the importance of not rousing
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s distrust by too great an alacrity in complying with his
      wishes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An interview to-day, my dear sir, is out of the question,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;She
      is not well enough; she wants repose. To-morrow I propose taking her out
      before the heat of the day begins&mdash;not merely to avoid embarrassment,
      after what has happened with Mrs. Lecount, but because the morning air and
      the morning quiet are essential in these nervous cases. We are early
      people here&mdash;we shall start at seven o&rsquo;clock. If you are early, too,
      and if you would like to join us, I need hardly say that we can feel no
      objection to your company on our morning walk. The hour, I am aware, is an
      unusual one&mdash;but later in the day my niece may be resting on the
      sofa, and may not be able to see visitors.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having made this proposal purely for the purpose of enabling Noel Vanstone
      to escape to North Shingles at an hour in the morning when his housekeeper
      would be probably in bed, Captain Wragge left him to take the hint, if he
      could, as indirectly as it had been given. He proved sharp enough (the
      case being one in which his own interests were concerned) to close with
      the proposal on the spot. Politely declaring that he was always an early
      man when the morning presented any special attraction to him, he accepted
      the appointment for seven o&rsquo;clock, and rose soon afterward to take his
      leave.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One word at parting,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;This conversation is entirely
      between ourselves. Mrs. Lecount must know nothing of the impression she
      has produced on my niece. I have only mentioned it to you to account for
      my apparently churlish conduct and to satisfy your own mind. In
      confidence, Mr. Vanstone&mdash;strictly in confidence. Good-morning!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With these parting words, the captain bowed his visitor out. Unless some
      unexpected disaster occurred, he now saw his way safely to the end of the
      enterprise. He had gained two important steps in advance that morning. He
      had sown the seeds of variance between the housekeeper and her master, and
      he had given Noel Vanstone a common interest with Magdalen and himself, in
      keeping a secret from Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;We have caught our man,&rdquo; thought
      Captain Wragge, cheerfully rubbing his hands&mdash;&ldquo;we have caught our man
      at last!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On leaving North Shingles Noel Vanstone walked straight home, fully
      restored to his place in his own estimation, and sternly determined to
      carry matters with a high hand if he found himself in collision with Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The housekeeper received her master at the door with her mildest manner
      and her gentlest smile. She addressed him with downcast eyes; she opposed
      to his contemplated assertion of independence a barrier of impenetrable
      respect.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I venture to ask, sir,&rdquo; she began, &ldquo;if your visit to North Shingles
      has led you to form the same conclusion as mine on the subject of Miss
      Bygrave&rsquo;s illness?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not, Lecount. I consider your conclusion to have been both
      hasty and prejudiced.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to hear it, sir. I felt hurt by Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s rude reception
      of me, but I was not aware that my judgment was prejudiced by it. Perhaps
      he received <i>you</i>, sir, with a warmer welcome?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He received me like a gentleman&mdash;that is all I think it necessary to
      say, Lecount&mdash;he received me like a gentleman.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This answer satisfied Mrs. Lecount on the one doubtful point that had
      perplexed her. Whatever Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s sudden coolness toward herself might
      mean, his polite reception of her master implied that the risk of
      detection had not daunted him, and that the plot was still in full
      progress. The housekeeper&rsquo;s eyes brightened; she had expressly calculated
      on this result. After a moment&rsquo;s thinking, she addressed her master with
      another question: &ldquo;You will probably visit Mr. Bygrave again, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course I shall visit him&mdash;if I please.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And perhaps see Miss Bygrave, if she gets better?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not? I should be glad to know why not? Is it necessary to ask your
      leave first, Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By no means, sir. As you have often said (and as I have often agreed with
      you), you are master. It may surprise you to hear it, Mr. Noel, but I have
      a private reason for wishing that you should see Miss Bygrave again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Noel started a little, and looked at his housekeeper with some
      curiosity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a strange fancy of my own, sir, about that young lady,&rdquo; proceeded
      Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;If you will excuse my fancy, and indulge it, you will do me
      a favor for which I shall be very grateful.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A fancy?&rdquo; repeated her master, in growing surprise. &ldquo;What fancy?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only this, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      She took from one of the neat little pockets of her apron a morsel of
      note-paper, carefully folded into the smallest possible compass, and
      respectfully placed it in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you are willing to oblige an old and faithful servant, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she
      said, in a very quiet and very impressive manner, &ldquo;you will kindly put
      that morsel of paper into your waistcoat pocket; you will open and read
      it, for the first time, <i>when you are next in Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s company</i>,
      and you will say nothing of what has now passed between us to any living
      creature, from this time to that. I promise to explain my strange request,
      sir, when you have done what I ask, and when your next interview with Miss
      Bygrave has come to an end.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She courtesied with her best grace, and quietly left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone looked from the folded paper to the door, and from the door
      back to the folded paper, in unutterable astonishment. A mystery in his
      own house! under his own nose! What did it mean?
    </p>
    <p>
      It meant that Mrs. Lecount had not wasted her time that morning. While the
      captain was casting the net over his visitor at North Shingles, the
      housekeeper was steadily mining the ground under his feet. The folded
      paper contained nothing less than a carefully written extract from the
      personal description of Magdalen in Miss Garth&rsquo;s letter. With a daring
      ingenuity which even Captain Wragge might have envied, Mrs. Lecount had
      found her instrument for exposing the conspiracy in the unsuspecting
      person of the victim himself!
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      LATE that evening, when Magdalen and Mrs. Wragge came back from their walk
      in the dark, the captain stopped Magdalen on her way upstairs to inform
      her of the proceedings of the day. He added the expression of his opinion
      that the time had come for bringing Noel Vanstone, with the least possible
      delay, to the point of making a proposal. She merely answered that she
      understood him, and that she would do what was required of her. Captain
      Wragge requested her in that case to oblige him by joining a walking
      excursion in Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s company at seven o&rsquo;clock the next
      morning. &ldquo;I will be ready,&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;Is there anything more?&rdquo; There
      was nothing more. Magdalen bade him good-night and returned to her own
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had shown the same disinclination to remain any longer than was
      necessary in the captain&rsquo;s company throughout the three days of her
      seclusion in the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      During all that time, instead of appearing to weary of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s
      society, she had patiently, almost eagerly, associated herself with her
      companion&rsquo;s one absorbing pursuit. She who had often chafed and fretted in
      past days under the monotony of her life in the freedom of Combe-Raven,
      now accepted without a murmur the monotony of her life at Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s
      work-table. She who had hated the sight of her needle and thread in old
      times&mdash;who had never yet worn an article of dress of her own making&mdash;now
      toiled as anxiously over the making of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s gown, and bore as
      patiently with Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s blunders, as if the sole object of her
      existence had been the successful completion of that one dress. Anything
      was welcome to her&mdash;the trivial difficulties of fitting a gown: the
      small, ceaseless chatter of the poor half-witted creature who was so proud
      of her assistance, and so happy in her company&mdash;anything was welcome
      that shut her out from the coming future, from the destiny to which she
      stood self-condemned. That sorely-wounded nature was soothed by such a
      trifle now as the grasp of her companion&rsquo;s rough and friendly hand&mdash;that
      desolate heart was cheered, when night parted them, by Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s kiss.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s isolated position in the house produced no depressing effect
      on the captain&rsquo;s easy and equal spirits. Instead of resenting Magdalen&rsquo;s
      systematic avoidance of his society, he looked to results, and highly
      approved of it. The more she neglected him for his wife the more directly
      useful she became in the character of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s self-appointed
      guardian. He had more than once seriously contemplated revoking the
      concession which had been extorted from him, and removing his wife, at his
      own sole responsibility, out of harm&rsquo;s way; and he had only abandoned the
      idea on discovering that Magdalen&rsquo;s resolution to keep Mrs. Wragge in her
      own company was really serious. While the two were together, his main
      anxiety was set at rest. They kept their door locked by his own desire
      while he was out of the house, and, whatever Mrs. Wragge might do,
      Magdalen was to be trusted not to open it until he came back. That night
      Captain Wragge enjoyed his cigar with a mind at ease, and sipped his
      brandy-and-water in happy ignorance of the pitfall which Mrs. Lecount had
      prepared for him in the morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      Punctually at seven o&rsquo;clock Noel Vanstone made his appearance. The moment
      he entered the room Captain Wragge detected a change in his visitor&rsquo;s look
      and manner. &ldquo;Something wrong!&rdquo; thought the captain. &ldquo;We have not done with
      Mrs. Lecount yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How is Miss Bygrave this morning?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;Well enough, I
      hope, for our early walk?&rdquo; His half-closed eyes, weak and watery with the
      morning light and the morning air, looked about the room furtively, and he
      shifted his place in a restless manner from one chair to another, as he
      made those polite inquiries.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My niece is better&mdash;she is dressing for the walk,&rdquo; replied the
      captain, steadily observing his restless little friend while he spoke.
      &ldquo;Mr. Vanstone!&rdquo; he added, on a sudden, &ldquo;I am a plain Englishman&mdash;excuse
      my blunt way of speaking my mind. You don&rsquo;t meet me this morning as
      cordially as you met me yesterday. There is something unsettled in your
      face. I distrust that housekeeper of yours, sir! Has she been presuming on
      your forbearance? Has she been trying to poison your mind against me or my
      niece?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If Noel Vanstone had obeyed Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s injunctions, and had kept her
      little morsel of note-paper folded in his pocket until the time came to
      use it, Captain Wragge&rsquo;s designedly blunt appeal might not have found him
      unprepared with an answer. But curiosity had got the better of him; he had
      opened the note at night, and again in the morning; it had seriously
      perplexed and startled him; and it had left his mind far too disturbed to
      allow him the possession of his ordinary resources. He hesitated; and his
      answer, when he succeeded in making it, began with a prevarication.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge stopped him before he had got beyond his first sentence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pardon me, sir,&rdquo; said the captain, in his loftiest manner. &ldquo;If you have
      secrets to keep, you have only to say so, and I have done. I intrude on no
      man&rsquo;s secrets. At the same time, Mr. Vanstone, you must allow me to recall
      to your memory that I met you yesterday without any reserves on my side. I
      admitted you to my frankest and fullest confidence, sir&mdash;and, highly
      as I prize the advantages of your society, I can&rsquo;t consent to cultivate
      your friendship on any other than equal terms.&rdquo; He threw open his
      respectable frock-coat and surveyed his visitor with a manly and virtuous
      severity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean no offense!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, piteously. &ldquo;Why do you interrupt
      me, Mr. Bygrave? Why don&rsquo;t you let me explain? I mean no offense.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No offense is taken, sir,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;You have a perfect right to
      the exercise of your own discretion. I am not offended&mdash;I only claim
      for myself the same privilege which I accord to you.&rdquo; He rose with great
      dignity and rang the bell. &ldquo;Tell Miss Bygrave,&rdquo; he said to the servant,
      &ldquo;that our walk this morning is put off until another opportunity, and that
      I won&rsquo;t trouble her to come downstairs.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This strong proceeding had the desired effect. Noel Vanstone vehemently
      pleaded for a moment&rsquo;s private conversation before the message was
      delivered. Captain Wragge&rsquo;s severity partially relaxed. He sent the
      servant downstairs again, and, resuming his chair, waited confidently for
      results. In calculating the facilities for practicing on his visitor&rsquo;s
      weakness, he had one great superiority over Mrs. Lecount. His judgment was
      not warped by latent female jealousies, and he avoided the error into
      which the housekeeper had fallen, self-deluded&mdash;the error of
      underrating the impression on Noel Vanstone that Magdalen had produced.
      One of the forces in this world which no middle-aged woman is capable of
      estimating at its full value, when it acts against her, is the force of
      beauty in a woman younger than herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are so hasty, Mr. Bygrave&mdash;you won&rsquo;t give me time&mdash;you
      won&rsquo;t wait and hear what I have to say!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, piteously,
      when the servant had closed the parlor door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My family failing, sir&mdash;the blood of the Bygraves. Accept my
      excuses. We are alone, as you wished; pray proceed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Placed between the alternatives of losing Magdalen&rsquo;s society or betraying
      Mrs. Lecount, unenlightened by any suspicion of the housekeeper&rsquo;s ultimate
      object, cowed by the immovable scrutiny of Captain Wragge&rsquo;s inquiring eye,
      Noel Vanstone was not long in making his choice. He confusedly described
      his singular interview of the previous evening with Mrs. Lecount, and,
      taking the folded paper from his pocket, placed it in the captain&rsquo;s hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      A suspicion of the truth dawned on Captain Wragge&rsquo;s mind the moment he saw
      the mysterious note. He withdrew to the window before he opened it. The
      first lines that attracted his attention were these: &ldquo;Oblige me, Mr. Noel,
      by comparing the young lady who is now in your company with the personal
      description which follows these lines, and which has been communicated to
      me by a friend. You shall know the name of the person described&mdash;which
      I have left a blank&mdash;as soon as the evidence of your own eyes has
      forced you to believe what you would refuse to credit on the unsupported
      testimony of Virginie Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That was enough for the captain. Before he had read a word of the
      description itself, he knew what Mrs. Lecount had done, and felt, with a
      profound sense of humiliation, that his female enemy had taken him by
      surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was no time to think; the whole enterprise was threatened with
      irrevocable overthrow. The one resource in Captain Wragge&rsquo;s present
      situation was to act instantly on the first impulse of his own audacity.
      Line by line he read on, and still the ready inventiveness which had never
      deserted him yet failed to answer the call made on it now. He came to the
      closing sentence&mdash;to the last words which mentioned the two little
      moles on Magdalen&rsquo;s neck. At that crowning point of the description, an
      idea crossed his mind; his party-colored eyes twinkled; his curly lips
      twisted up at the corners; Wragge was himself again. He wheeled round
      suddenly from the window, and looked Noel Vanstone straight in the face
      with a grimly-quiet suggestiveness of something serious to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray, sir, do you happen to know anything of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s family?&rdquo; he
      inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A respectable family,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone&mdash;&ldquo;that&rsquo;s all I know. Why
      do you ask?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not usually a betting man,&rdquo; pursued Captain Wragge. &ldquo;But on this
      occasion I will lay you any wager you like there is madness in your
      housekeeper&rsquo;s family.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Madness!&rdquo; repeated Noel Vanstone, amazedly
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Madness!&rdquo; reiterated the captain, sternly tapping the note with his
      forefinger. &ldquo;I see the cunning of insanity, the suspicion of insanity, the
      feline treachery of insanity in every line of this deplorable document.
      There is a far more alarming reason, sir, than I had supposed for Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s behavior to my niece. It is clear to me that Miss Bygrave
      resembles some other lady who has seriously offended your housekeeper&mdash;who
      has been formerly connected, perhaps, with an outbreak of insanity in your
      housekeeper&mdash;and who is now evidently confused with my niece in your
      housekeeper&rsquo;s wandering mind. That is my conviction, Mr. Vanstone. I may
      be right, or I may be wrong. All I say is this&mdash;neither you, nor any
      man, can assign a sane motive for the production of that incomprehensible
      document, and for the use which you are requested to make of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think Lecount&rsquo;s mad,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, with a very blank look,
      and a very discomposed manner. &ldquo;It couldn&rsquo;t have escaped me, with my
      habits of observation; it couldn&rsquo;t possibly have escaped me if Lecount had
      been mad.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good, my dear sir. In my opinion, she is the subject of an insane
      delusion. In your opinion, she is in possession of her senses, and has
      some mysterious motive which neither you nor I can fathom. Either way,
      there can be no harm in putting Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s description to the test,
      not only as a matter of curiosity, but for our own private satisfaction on
      both sides. It is of course impossible to tell my niece that she is to be
      made the subject of such a preposterous experiment as that note of yours
      suggests. But you can use your own eyes, Mr. Vanstone; you can keep your
      own counsel; and&mdash;mad or not&mdash;you can at least tell your
      housekeeper, on the testimony of your own senses, that she is wrong. Let
      me look at the description again. The greater part of it is not worth two
      straws for any purpose of identification; hundreds of young ladies have
      tall figures, fair complexions, light brown hair, and light gray eyes. You
      will say, on the other hand, hundreds of young ladies have not got two
      little moles close together on the left side of the neck. Quite true. The
      moles supply us with what we scientific men call a Crucial Test. When my
      niece comes downstairs, sir, you have my full permission to take the
      liberty of looking at her neck.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone expressed his high approval of the Crucial Test by smirking
      and simpering for the first time that morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of looking at her neck,&rdquo; repeated the captain, returning the note to his
      visitor, and then making for the door. &ldquo;I will go upstairs myself, Mr.
      Vanstone,&rdquo; he continued, &ldquo;and inspect Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s walking-dress. If she
      has innocently placed any obstacles in your way, if her hair is a little
      too low, or her frill is a little too high, I will exert my authority, on
      the first harmless pretext I can think of, to have those obstacles
      removed. All I ask is, that you will choose your opportunity discreetly,
      and that you will not allow my niece to suppose that her neck is the
      object of a gentleman&rsquo;s inspection.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The moment he was out of the parlor Captain Wragge ascended the stairs at
      the top of his speed and knocked at Magdalen&rsquo;s door. She opened it to him
      in her walking-dress, obedient to the signal agreed on between them which
      summoned her downstairs.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What have you done with your paints and powders?&rdquo; asked the captain,
      without wasting a word in preliminary explanations. &ldquo;They were not in the
      box of costumes which I sold for you at Birmingham. Where are they?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have got them here,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;What can you possibly mean by
      wanting them now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bring them instantly into my dressing-room&mdash;the whole collection,
      brushes, palette, and everything. Don&rsquo;t waste time in asking questions;
      I&rsquo;ll tell you what has happened as we go on. Every moment is precious to
      us. Follow me instantly!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His face plainly showed that there was a serious reason for his strange
      proposal. Magdalen secured her collection of cosmetics and followed him
      into the dressing-room. He locked the door, placed her on a chair close to
      the light, and then told her what had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We are on the brink of detection,&rdquo; proceeded the captain, carefully
      mixing his colors with liquid glue, and with a strong &ldquo;drier&rdquo; added from a
      bottle in his own possession. &ldquo;There is only one chance for us (lift up
      your hair from the left side of your neck)&mdash;I have told Mr. Noel
      Vanstone to take a private opportunity of looking at you; and I am going
      to give the lie direct to that she-devil Lecount by painting out your
      moles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They can&rsquo;t be painted out,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;No color will stop on them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;<i>My</i> color will,&rdquo; remarked Captain Wragge. &ldquo;I have tried a variety
      of professions in my time&mdash;the profession of painting among the rest.
      Did you ever hear of such a thing as a Black Eye? I lived some months once
      in the neighborhood of Drury Lane entirely on Black Eyes. My flesh-color
      stood on bruises of all sorts, shades, and sizes, and it will stand, I
      promise you, on your moles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With this assurance, the captain dipped his brush into a little lump of
      opaque color which he had mixed in a saucer, and which he had graduated as
      nearly as the materials would permit to the color of Magdalen&rsquo;s skin.
      After first passing a cambric handkerchief, with some white powder on it,
      over the part of her neck on which he designed to operate, he placed two
      layers of color on the moles with the tip of the brush. The process was
      performed in a few moments, and the moles, as if by magic, disappeared
      from view. Nothing but the closest inspection could have discovered the
      artifice by which they had been concealed; at the distance of two or three
      feet only, it was perfectly invisible.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait here five minutes,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, &ldquo;to let the paint dry&mdash;and
      then join us in the parlor. Mrs. Lecount herself would be puzzled if she
      looked at you now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop!&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;There is one thing you have not told me yet. How
      did Mrs. Lecount get the description which you read downstairs? Whatever
      else she has seen of me, she has not seen the mark on my neck&mdash;it is
      too far back, and too high up; my hair hides it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who knows of the mark?&rdquo; asked Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned deadly pale under the anguish of a sudden recollection of
      Frank.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My sister knows it,&rdquo; she said, faintly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Lecount may have written to your sister,&rdquo; suggested the captain:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you think my sister would tell a stranger what no stranger has a right
      to know? Never! never!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there nobody else who could tell Mrs. Lecount? The mark was mentioned
      in the handbills at York. Who put it there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not Norah! Perhaps Mr. Pendril. Perhaps Miss Garth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then Mrs. Lecount has written to Mr. Pendril or Miss Garth&mdash;more
      likely to Miss Garth. The governess would be easier to deal with than the
      lawyer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What can she have said to Miss Garth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge considered a little.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t say what Mrs. Lecount may have written,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;but I can tell
      you what I should have written in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s place. I should have
      frightened Miss Garth by false reports about you, to begin with, and then
      I should have asked for personal particulars, to help a benevolent
      stranger in restoring you to your friends.&rdquo; The angry glitter flashed up
      instantly in Magdalen&rsquo;s eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What <i>you</i> would have done is what Mrs. Lecount has done,&rdquo; she said,
      indignantly. &ldquo;Neither lawyer nor governess shall dispute my right to my
      own will and my own way. If Miss Garth thinks she can control my actions
      by corresponding with Mrs. Lecount, I will show Miss Garth she is
      mistaken! It is high time, Captain Wragge, to have done with these
      wretched risks of discovery. We will take the short way to the end we have
      in view sooner than Mrs. Lecount or Miss Garth think for. How long can you
      give me to wring an offer of marriage out of that creature downstairs?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I dare not give you long,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge. &ldquo;Now your friends know
      where you are, they may come down on us at a day&rsquo;s notice. Could you
      manage it in a week?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll manage it in half the time,&rdquo; she said, with a hard, defiant laugh.
      &ldquo;Leave us together this morning as you left us at Dunwich, and take Mrs.
      Wragge with you, as an excuse for parting company. Is the paint dry yet?
      Go downstairs and tell him I am coming directly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So, for the second time, Miss Garth&rsquo;s well-meant efforts defeated their
      own end. So the fatal force of circumstance turned the hand that would
      fain have held Magdalen back into the hand that drove her on.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain returned to his visitor in the parlor, after first stopping on
      his way to issue his orders for the walking excursion to Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am shocked to have kept you waiting,&rdquo; he said, sitting down again
      confidentially by Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s side. &ldquo;My only excuse is, that my niece
      had accidentally dressed her hair so as to defeat our object. I have been
      persuading her to alter it, and young ladies are apt to be a little
      obstinate on questions relating to their toilet. Give her a chair on that
      side of you when she comes in, and take your look at her neck comfortably
      before we start for our walk.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen entered the room as he said those words, and after the first
      greetings were exchanged, took the chair presented to her with the most
      unsuspicious readiness. Noel Vanstone applied the Crucial Test on the
      spot, with the highest appreciation of the fair material which was the
      subject of experiment. Not the vestige of a mole was visible on any part
      of the smooth white surface of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s neck. It mutely answered the
      blinking inquiry of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s half-closed eyes by the flattest
      practical contradiction of Mrs. Lecount. That one central incident in the
      events of the morning was of all the incidents that had hitherto occurred,
      the most important in its results. That one discovery shook the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s hold on her master as nothing had shaken it yet.
    </p>
    <p>
      In a few minutes Mrs. Wragge made her appearance, and excited as much
      surprise in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s mind as he was capable of feeling while
      absorbed in the enjoyment of Magdalen&rsquo;s society. The walking-party left
      the house at once, directing their steps northward, so as not to pass the
      windows of Sea-view Cottage. To Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s unutterable astonishment,
      her husband, for the first time in the course of their married life,
      politely offered her his arm, and led her on in advance of the young
      people, as if the privilege of walking alone with her presented some
      special attraction to him! &ldquo;Step out!&rdquo; whispered the captain, fiercely.
      &ldquo;Leave your niece and Mr. Vanstone alone! If I catch you looking back at
      them, I&rsquo;ll put the Oriental Cashmere Robe on the top of the kitchen fire!
      Turn your toes out, and keep step&mdash;confound you, keep step!&rdquo; Mrs.
      Wragge kept step to the best of her limited ability. Her sturdy knees
      trembled under her. She firmly believed the captain was intoxicated.
    </p>
    <p>
      The walk lasted for rather more than an hour. Before nine o&rsquo;clock they
      were all back again at North Shingles. The ladies went at once into the
      house. Noel Vanstone remained with Captain Wragge in the garden. &ldquo;Well,&rdquo;
       said the captain, &ldquo;what do you think now of Mrs. Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damn Lecount!&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone, in great agitation. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m half
      inclined to agree with you. I&rsquo;m half inclined to think my infernal
      housekeeper is mad.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He spoke fretfully and unwillingly, as if the merest allusion to Mrs.
      Lecount was distasteful to him. His color came and went; his manner was
      absent and undecided; he fidgeted restlessly about the garden walk. It
      would have been plain to a far less acute observation than Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s, that Magdalen had met his advances by an unexpected grace and
      readiness of encouragement which had entirely overthrown his self-control.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I never enjoyed a walk so much in my life!&rdquo; he exclaimed, with a sudden
      outburst of enthusiasm. &ldquo;I hope Miss Bygrave feels all the better, for it.
      Do you go out at the same time to-morrow morning? May I join you again?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all means, Mr. Vanstone,&rdquo; said the Captain, cordially. &ldquo;Excuse me for
      returning to the subject&mdash;but what do you propose saying to Mrs.
      Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. Lecount is a perfect nuisance! What would you do, Mr.
      Bygrave, if you were in my place?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Allow me to ask a question, my dear sir, before I tell you. What is your
      breakfast-hour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Half-past nine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Mrs. Lecount an early riser?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. Lecount is lazy in the morning. I hate lazy women! If you were in my
      place, what should you say to her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I should say nothing,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge. &ldquo;I should return at once
      by the back way; I should let Mrs. Lecount see me in the front garden as
      if I was taking a turn before breakfast; and I should leave her to suppose
      that I was only just out of my room. If she asks you whether you mean to
      come here today, say No. Secure a quiet life until circumstances force you
      to give her an answer. Then tell the plain truth&mdash;say that Mr.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s niece and Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s description are at variance with each
      other in the most important particular, and beg that the subject may not
      be mentioned again. There is my advice. What do you think of it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If Noel Vanstone could have looked into his counselor&rsquo;s mind, he might
      have thought the captain&rsquo;s advice excellently adapted to serve the
      captain&rsquo;s interests. As long as Mrs. Lecount could be kept in ignorance of
      her master&rsquo;s visits to North Shingles, so long she would wait until the
      opportunity came for trying her experiment, and so long she might be
      trusted not to endanger the conspiracy by any further proceedings.
      Necessarily incapable of viewing Captain Wragge&rsquo;s advice under this
      aspect, Noel Vanstone simply looked at it as offering him a temporary
      means of escape from an explanation with his housekeeper. He eagerly
      declared that the course of action suggested to him should be followed to
      the letter, and returned to Sea View without further delay.
    </p>
    <p>
      On this occasion Captain Wragge&rsquo;s anticipations were in no respect
      falsified by Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s conduct. She had no suspicion of her master&rsquo;s
      visit to North Shingles: she had made up her mind, if necessary, to wait
      patiently for his interview with Miss Bygrave until the end of the week;
      and she did not embarrass him by any unexpected questions when he
      announced his intention of holding no personal communication with the
      Bygraves on that day. All she said was, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you feel well enough, Mr.
      Noel? or don&rsquo;t you feel inclined?&rdquo; He answered, shortly, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t feel
      well enough&rdquo;; and there the conversation ended.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next day the proceedings of the previous morning were exactly
      repeated. This time Noel Vanstone went home rapturously with a keepsake in
      his breast-pocket; he had taken tender possession of one of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s
      gloves. At intervals during the day, whenever he was alone, he took out
      the glove and kissed it with a devotion which was almost passionate in its
      fervor. The miserable little creature luxuriated in his moments of stolen
      happiness with a speechless and stealthy delight which was a new sensation
      to him. The few young girls whom he had met with, in his father&rsquo;s narrow
      circle at Zurich, had felt a mischievous pleasure in treating him like a
      quaint little plaything; the strongest impression he could make on their
      hearts was an impression in which their lap-dogs might have rivaled him;
      the deepest interest he could create in them was the interest they might
      have felt in a new trinket or a new dress. The only women who had hitherto
      invited his admiration, and taken his compliments seriously had been women
      whose charms were on the wane, and whose chances of marriage were fast
      failing them. For the first time in his life he had now passed hours of
      happiness in the society of a beautiful girl, who had left him to think of
      her afterward without a single humiliating remembrance to lower him in his
      own esteem.
    </p>
    <p>
      Anxiously as he tried to hide it, the change produced in his look and
      manner by the new feeling awakened in him was not a change which could be
      concealed from Mrs. Lecount. On the second day she pointedly asked him
      whether he had not made an arrangement to call on the Bygraves. He denied
      it as before. &ldquo;Perhaps you are going to-morrow, Mr. Noel?&rdquo; persisted the
      housekeeper. He was at the end of his resources; he was impatient to be
      rid of her inquiries; he trusted to his friend at North Shingles to help
      him; and this time he answered Yes. &ldquo;If you see the young lady,&rdquo; proceeded
      Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;don&rsquo;t forget that note of mine, sir, which you have in your
      waistcoat-pocket.&rdquo; No more was said on either side, but by that night&rsquo;s
      post the housekeeper wrote to Miss Garth. The letter merely acknowledged,
      with thanks, the receipt of Miss Garth&rsquo;s communication, and informed her
      that in a few days Mrs. Lecount hoped to be in a position to write again
      and summon Mr. Pendril to Aldborough.
    </p>
    <p>
      Late in the evening, when the parlor at North Shingles began to get dark,
      and when the captain rang the bell for candles as usual, he was surprised
      by hearing Magdalen&rsquo;s voice in the passage telling the servant to take the
      lights downstairs again. She knocked at the door immediately afterward,
      and glided into the obscurity of the room like a ghost.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a question to ask you about your plans for to-morrow,&rdquo; she said.
      &ldquo;My eyes are very weak this evening, and I hope you will not object to
      dispense with the candles for a few minutes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She spoke in low, stifled tones, and felt her way noiselessly to a chair
      far removed from the captain in the darkest part of the room. Sitting near
      the window, he could just discern the dim outline of her dress, he could
      just hear the faint accents of her voice. For the last two days he had
      seen nothing of her except during their morning walk. On that afternoon he
      had found his wife crying in the little backroom down-stairs. She could
      only tell him that Magdalen had frightened her&mdash;that Magdalen was
      going the way again which she had gone when the letter came from China in
      the terrible past time at Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was sorry to her that you were ill to-day, from Mrs. Wragge,&rdquo; said the
      captain, unconsciously dropping his voice almost to a whisper as he spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t matter,&rdquo; she answered quietly, out of the darkness. &ldquo;I am
      strong enough to suffer, and live. Other girls in my place would have been
      happier&mdash;they would have suffered, and died. It doesn&rsquo;t matter; it
      will be all the same a hundred years hence. Is he coming again tomorrow
      morning at seven o&rsquo;clock?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He is coming, if you feel no objection to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no objection to make; I have done with objecting. But I should
      like to have the time altered. I don&rsquo;t look my best in the early morning&mdash;-I
      have bad nights, and I rise haggard and worn. Write him a note this
      evening, and tell him to come at twelve o&rsquo;clock.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Twelve is rather late, under the circumstances, for you to be seen out
      walking.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no intention of walking. Let him be shown into the parlor&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice died away in silence before she ended the sentence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo; said Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And leave me alone in the parlor to receive him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understand,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;An admirable idea. I&rsquo;ll be out of the
      way in the dining-room while he is here, and you can come and tell me
      about it when he has gone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was another moment of silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there no way but telling you?&rdquo; she asked, suddenly. &ldquo;I can control
      myself while he is with me, but I can&rsquo;t answer for what I may say or do
      afterward. Is there no other way?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Plenty of ways,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Here is the first that occurs to me.
      Leave the blind down over the window of your room upstairs before he
      comes. I will go out on the beach, and wait there within sight of the
      house. When I see him come out again, I will look at the window. If he has
      said nothing, leave the blind down. If he has made you an offer, draw the
      blind up. The signal is simplicity itself; we can&rsquo;t misunderstand each
      other. Look your best to-morrow! Make sure of him, my dear girl&mdash;make
      sure of him, if you possibly can.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He had spoken loud enough to feel certain that she had heard him, but no
      answering word came from her. The dead silence was only disturbed by the
      rustling of her dress, which told him she had risen from her chair. Her
      shadowy presence crossed the room again; the door shut softly; she was
      gone. He rang the bell hurriedly for the lights. The servant found him
      standing close at the window, looking less self-possessed than usual. He
      told her he felt a little poorly, and sent her to the cupboard for the
      brandy.
    </p>
    <p>
      At a few minutes before twelve the next day Captain Wragge withdrew to his
      post of observation, concealing himself behind a fishing-boat drawn up on
      the beach. Punctually as the hour struck, he saw Noel Vanstone approach
      North Shingles and open the garden gate. When the house door had closed on
      the visitor, Captain Wragge settled himself comfortably against the side
      of the boat and lit his cigar.
    </p>
    <p>
      He smoked for half an hour&mdash;for ten minutes over the half-hour, by
      his watch. He finished the cigar down to the last morsel of it that he
      could hold in his lips. Just as he had thrown away the end, the door
      opened again and Noel Vanstone came out.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain looked up instantly at Magdalen&rsquo;s window. In the absorbing
      excitement of the moment, he counted the seconds. She might get from the
      parlor to her own room in less than a minute. He counted to thirty, and
      nothing happened. He counted to fifty, and nothing happened. He gave up
      counting, and left the boat impatiently, to return to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he took his first step forward he saw the signal.
    </p>
    <p>
      The blind was drawn up.
    </p>
    <p>
      Cautiously ascending the eminence of the beach, Captain Wragge looked
      toward Sea-view Cottage before he showed himself on the Parade. Noel
      Vanstone had reached home again; he was just entering his own door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If all your money was offered me to stand in your shoes,&rdquo; said the
      captain, looking after him&mdash;&ldquo;rich as you are, I wouldn&rsquo;t take it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER VIII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ON returning to the house, Captain Wragge received a significant message
      from the servant. &ldquo;Mr. Noel Vanstone would call again at two o&rsquo;clock that
      afternoon, when he hoped to have the pleasure of finding Mr. Bygrave at
      home.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s first inquiry after hearing this message referred to
      Magdalen. &ldquo;Where was Miss Bygrave?&rdquo; &ldquo;In her own room.&rdquo; &ldquo;Where was Mrs.
      Bygrave?&rdquo; &ldquo;In the back parlor.&rdquo; Captain Wragge turned his steps at once in
      the latter direction, and found his wife, for the second time, in tears.
      She had been sent out of Magdalen&rsquo;s room for the whole day, and she was at
      her wits&rsquo; end to know what she had done to deserve it. Shortening her
      lamentations without ceremony, her husband sent her upstairs on the spot,
      with instructions to knock at the door, and to inquire whether Magdalen
      could give five minutes&rsquo; attention to a question of importance which must
      be settled before two o&rsquo;clock.
    </p>
    <p>
      The answer returned was in the negative. Magdalen requested that the
      subject on which she was asked to decide might be mentioned to her in
      writing. She engaged to reply in the same way, on the understanding that
      Mrs. Wragge, and not the servant, should be employed to deliver the note
      and to take back the answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge forthwith opened his paper-case and wrote these lines:
      &ldquo;Accept my warmest congratulations on the result of your interview with
      Mr. N. V. He is coming again at two o&rsquo;clock&mdash;no doubt to make his
      proposals in due form. The question to decide is, whether I shall press
      him or not on the subject of settlements. The considerations for your own
      mind are two in number. First, whether the said pressure (without at all
      underrating your influence over him) may not squeeze for a long time
      before it squeezes money out of Mr. N. V. Secondly, whether we are
      altogether justified&mdash;considering our present position toward a
      certain sharp practitioner in petticoats&mdash;in running the risk of
      delay. Consider these points, and let me have your decision as soon as
      convenient.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The answer returned to this note was written in crooked, blotted
      characters, strangely unlike Magdalen&rsquo;s usually firm and clear
      handwriting. It only contained these words: &ldquo;Give yourself no trouble
      about settlements. Leave the use to which he is to put his money for the
      future in my hands.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you see her?&rdquo; asked the captain, when his wife had delivered the
      answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I tried,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, with a fresh burst of tears&mdash;&ldquo;but she
      only opened the door far enough to put out her hand. I took and gave it a
      little squeeze&mdash;and, oh poor soul, it felt so cold in mine!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s master made his appearance at two o&rsquo;clock, he stood
      alarmingly in need of an anodyne application from Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s green
      fan. The agitation of making his avowal to Magdalen; the terror of finding
      himself discovered by the housekeeper; the tormenting suspicion of the
      hard pecuniary conditions which Magdalen&rsquo;s relative and guardian might
      impose on him&mdash;all these emotions, stirring in conflict together, had
      overpowered his feebly-working heart with a trial that strained it sorely.
      He gasped for breath as he sat down in the parlor at North Shingles, and
      that ominous bluish pallor which always overspread his face in moments of
      agitation now made its warning appearance again. Captain Wragge seized the
      brandy bottle in genuine alarm, and forced his visitor to drink a
      wine-glassful of the spirit before a word was said between them on either
      side.
    </p>
    <p>
      Restored by the stimulant, and encouraged by the readiness with which the
      captain anticipated everything that he had to say, Noel Vanstone contrived
      to state the serious object of his visit in tolerably plain terms. All the
      conventional preliminaries proper to the occasion were easily disposed of.
      The suitor&rsquo;s family was respectable; his position in life was undeniably
      satisfactory; his attachment, though hasty, was evidently disinterested
      and sincere. All that Captain Wragge had to do was to refer to these
      various considerations with a happy choice of language in a voice that
      trembled with manly emotion, and this he did to perfection. For the first
      half-hour of the interview, no allusion whatever was made to the delicate
      and dangerous part of the subject. The captain waited until he had
      composed his visitor, and when that result was achieved came smoothly to
      the point in these terms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is one little difficulty, Mr. Vanstone, which I think we have both
      overlooked. Your housekeeper&rsquo;s recent conduct inclines me to fear that she
      will view the approaching change in your life with anything but a friendly
      eye. Probably you have not thought it necessary yet to inform her of the
      new tie which you propose to form?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone turned pale at the bare idea of explaining himself to Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t tell what I&rsquo;m to do,&rdquo; he said, glancing aside nervously at the
      window, as if he expected to see the housekeeper peeping in. &ldquo;I hate all
      awkward positions, and this is the most unpleasant position I ever was
      placed in. You don&rsquo;t know what a terrible woman Lecount is. I&rsquo;m not afraid
      of her; pray don&rsquo;t suppose I&rsquo;m afraid of her&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At those words his fears rose in his throat, and gave him the lie direct
      by stopping his utterance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray don&rsquo;t trouble yourself to explain,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, coming to
      the rescue. &ldquo;This is the common story, Mr. Vanstone. Here is a woman who
      has grown old in your service, and in your father&rsquo;s service before you; a
      woman who has contrived, in all sorts of small, underhand ways, to presume
      systematically on her position for years and years past; a woman, in
      short, whom your inconsiderate but perfectly natural kindness has allowed
      to claim a right of property in you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Property!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, mistaking the captain, and letting the
      truth escape him through sheer inability to conceal his fears any longer.
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what amount of property she won&rsquo;t claim. She&rsquo;ll make me pay
      for my father as well as for myself. Thousands, Mr. Bygrave&mdash;thousands
      of pounds sterling out of my pocket!!!&rdquo; He clasped his hands in despair at
      the picture of pecuniary compulsion which his fancy had conjured up&mdash;his
      own golden life-blood spouting from him in great jets of prodigality,
      under the lancet of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gently, Mr. Vanstone&mdash;gently! The woman knows nothing so far, and
      the money is not gone yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, no; the money is not gone, as you say. I&rsquo;m only nervous about it; I
      can&rsquo;t help being nervous. You were saying something just now; you were
      going to give me advice. I value your advice; you don&rsquo;t know how highly I
      value your advice.&rdquo; He said those words with a conciliatory smile which
      was more than helpless; it was absolutely servile in its dependence on his
      judicious friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was only assuring you, my dear sir, that I understood your position,&rdquo;
       said the captain. &ldquo;I see your difficulty as plainly as you can see it
      yourself. Tell a woman like Mrs. Lecount that she must come off her
      domestic throne, to make way for a young and beautiful successor, armed
      with the authority of a wife, and an unpleasant scene must be the
      inevitable result. An unpleasant scene, Mr. Vanstone, if your opinion of
      your housekeeper&rsquo;s sanity is well founded. Something far more serious, if
      my opinion that her intellect is unsettled happens to turn out the right
      one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t say it isn&rsquo;t my opinion, too,&rdquo; rejoined Noel Vanstone.
      &ldquo;Especially after what has happened to-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge immediately begged to know what the event alluded to might
      be.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone thereupon explained&mdash;with an infinite number of
      parentheses all referring to himself&mdash;that Mrs. Lecount had put the
      dreaded question relating to the little note in her master&rsquo;s pocket barely
      an hour since. He had answered her inquiry as Mr. Bygrave had advised him.
      On hearing that the accuracy of the personal description had been fairly
      put to the test, and had failed in the one important particular of the
      moles on the neck, Mrs. Lecount had considered a little, and had then
      asked him whether he had shown her note to Mr. Bygrave before the
      experiment was tried. He had answered in the negative, as the only safe
      form of reply that he could think of on the spur of the moment, and the
      housekeeper had then addressed him in these strange and startling words:
      &ldquo;You are keeping the truth from me, Mr. Noel. You are trusting strangers,
      and doubting your old servant and your old friend. Every time you go to
      Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s house, every time you see Miss Bygrave, you are drawing
      nearer and nearer to your destruction. They have got the bandage over your
      eyes in spite of me; but I tell them, and tell you, before many days are
      over I will take it off!&rdquo; To this extraordinary outbreak&mdash;accompanied
      as it was by an expression in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s face which he had never seen
      there before&mdash;Noel Vanstone had made no reply. Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s
      conviction that there was a lurking taint of insanity in the housekeeper&rsquo;s
      blood had recurred to his memory, and he had left the room at the first
      opportunity.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge listened with the closest attention to the narrative thus
      presented to him. But one conclusion could be drawn from it&mdash;it was a
      plain warning to him to hasten the end.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not surprised,&rdquo; he said, gravely, &ldquo;to hear that you are inclining
      more favorably to my opinion. After what you have just told me, Mr.
      Vanstone, no sensible man could do otherwise. This is becoming serious. I
      hardly know what results may not be expected to follow the communication
      of your approaching change in life to Mrs. Lecount. My niece may be
      involved in those results. She is nervous; she is sensitive in the highest
      degree; she is the innocent object of this woman&rsquo;s unreasoning hatred and
      distrust. You alarm me, sir! I am not easily thrown off my balance, but I
      acknowledge you alarm me for the future.&rdquo; He frowned, shook his head, and
      looked at his visitor despondently.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone began to feel uneasy. The change in Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s manner
      seemed ominous of a reconsideration of his proposals from a new and
      unfavorable point of view. He took counsel of his inborn cowardice and his
      inborn cunning, and proposed a solution of the difficulty discovered by
      himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why should we tell Lecount at all?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;What right has Lecount to
      know? Can&rsquo;t we be married without letting her into the secret? And can&rsquo;t
      somebody tell her afterward when we are both out of her reach?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge received this proposal with an expression of surprise which
      did infinite credit to his power of control over his own countenance. His
      foremost object throughout the interview had been to conduct it to this
      point, or, in other words, to make the first idea of keeping the marriage
      a secret from Mrs. Lecount emanate from Noel Vanstone instead of from
      himself. No one knew better than the captain that the only
      responsibilities which a weak man ever accepts are responsibilities which
      can be perpetually pointed out to him as resting exclusively on his own
      shoulders.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am accustomed to set my face against clandestine proceedings of all
      kinds,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;But there are exceptions to the strictest
      rules; and I am bound to admit, Mr. Vanstone, that your position in this
      matter is an exceptional position, if ever there was one yet. The course
      you have just proposed&mdash;however unbecoming I may think it, however
      distasteful it may be to myself&mdash;would not only spare you a very
      serious embarrassment (to say the least of it), but would also protect you
      from the personal assertion of those pecuniary claims on the part of your
      housekeeper to which you have already adverted. These are both desirable
      results to achieve&mdash;to say nothing of the removal, on my side, of all
      apprehension of annoyance to my niece. On the other hand, however, a
      marriage solemnized with such privacy as you propose must be a hasty
      marriage; for, as we are situated, the longer the delay the greater will
      be the risk that our secret may escape our keeping. I am not against hasty
      marriages where a mutual flame is fanned by an adequate income. My own was
      a love-match contracted in a hurry. There are plenty of instances in the
      experience of every one, of short courtships and speedy marriages, which
      have turned up trumps&mdash;I beg your pardon&mdash;which have turned out
      well after all. But if you and my niece, Mr. Vanstone, are to add one to
      the number of these eases, the usual preliminaries of marriage among the
      higher classes must be hastened by some means. You doubtless understand me
      as now referring to the subject of settlements.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take another teaspoonful of brandy,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, holding out
      his glass with a trembling hand as the word &ldquo;settlements&rdquo; passed Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take a teaspoonful with you,&rdquo; said the captain, nimbly dismounting
      from the pedestal of his respectability, and sipping his brandy with the
      highest relish. Noel Vanstone, after nervously following his host&rsquo;s
      example, composed himself to meet the coming ordeal, with reclining head
      and grasping hands, in the position familiarly associated to all civilized
      humanity with a seat in a dentist&rsquo;s chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain put down his empty glass and got up again on his pedestal.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We were talking of settlements,&rdquo; he resumed. &ldquo;I have already mentioned,
      Mr. Vanstone, at an early period of our conversation, that my niece
      presents the man of her choice with no other dowry than the most
      inestimable of all gifts&mdash;the gift of herself. This circumstance,
      however (as you are no doubt aware), does not disentitle me to make the
      customary stipulations with her future husband. According to the usual
      course in this matter, my lawyer would see yours&mdash;consultations would
      take place&mdash;delays would occur&mdash;strangers would be in possession
      of your intentions&mdash;and Mrs. Lecount would, sooner or later, arrive
      at that knowledge of the truth which you are anxious to keep from her. Do
      you agree with me so far?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Unutterable apprehension closed Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s lips. He could only reply
      by an inclination of the head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Now, sir, you may possibly have observed
      that I am a man of a very original turn of mind. If I have not hitherto
      struck you in that light, it may then be necessary to mention that there
      are some subjects on which I persist in thinking for myself. The subject
      of marriage settlements is one of them. What, let me ask you, does a
      parent or guardian in my present condition usually do? After having
      trusted the man whom he has chosen for his son-in-law with the sacred
      deposit of a woman&rsquo;s happiness, he turns round on that man, and declines
      to trust him with the infinitely inferior responsibility of providing for
      her pecuniary future. He fetters his son-in-law with the most binding
      document the law can produce, and employs with the husband of his own
      child the same precautions which he would use if he were dealing with a
      stranger and a rogue. I call such conduct as this inconsistent and
      unbecoming in the last degree. You will not find it my course of conduct,
      Mr. Vanstone&mdash;you will not find me preaching what I don&rsquo;t practice.
      If I trust you with my niece, I trust you with every inferior
      responsibility toward her and toward me. Give me your hand, sir; tell me,
      on your word of honor, that you will provide for your wife as becomes her
      position and your means, and the question of settlements is decided
      between us from this moment at once and forever!&rdquo; Having carried out
      Magdalen&rsquo;s instructions in this lofty tone, he threw open his respectable
      frockcoat, and sat with head erect and hand extended, the model of
      parental feeling and the picture of human integrity.
    </p>
    <p>
      For one moment Noel Vanstone remained literally petrified by astonishment.
      The next, he started from his chair and wrung the hand of his magnanimous
      friend in a perfect transport of admiration. Never yet, throughout his
      long and varied career, had Captain Wragge felt such difficulty in keeping
      his countenance as he felt now. Contempt for the outburst of miserly
      gratitude of which he was the object; triumph in the sense of successful
      conspiracy against a man who had rated the offer of his protection at five
      pounds; regret at the lost opportunity of effecting a fine stroke of moral
      agriculture, which his dread of involving himself in coming consequences
      had forced him to let slip&mdash;all these varied emotions agitated the
      captain&rsquo;s mind; all strove together to find their way to the surface
      through the outlets of his face or his tongue. He allowed Noel Vanstone to
      keep possession of his hand, and to heap one series of shrill
      protestations and promises on another, until he had regained his usual
      mastery over himself. That result achieved, he put the little man back in
      his chair, and returned forthwith to the subject of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose we now revert to the difficulty which we have not conquered yet,&rdquo;
       said the captain. &ldquo;Let us say that I do violence to my own habits and
      feelings; that I allow the considerations I have already mentioned to
      weigh with me; and that I sanction your wish to be united to my niece
      without the knowledge of Mrs. Lecount. Allow me to inquire in that case
      what means you can suggest for the accomplishment of your end?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t suggest anything,&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone, helplessly. &ldquo;Would you
      object to suggest for me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are making a bolder request than you think, Mr. Vanstone. I never do
      things by halves. When I am acting with my customary candor, I am frank
      (as you know already) to the utmost verge of imprudence. When exceptional
      circumstances compel me to take an opposite course, there isn&rsquo;t a slyer
      fox alive than I am. If, at your express request, I take off my honest
      English coat here and put on a Jesuit&rsquo;s gown&mdash;if, purely out of
      sympathy for your awkward position, I consent to keep your secret for you
      from Mrs. Lecount&mdash;I must have no unseasonable scruples to contend
      with on your part. If it is neck or nothing on my side, sir, it must be
      neck or nothing on yours also.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Neck or nothing, by all means,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, briskly&mdash;&ldquo;on the
      understanding that you go first. I have no scruples about keeping Lecount
      in the dark. But she is devilish cunning, Mr. Bygrave. How is it to be
      done?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall hear directly,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;Before I develop my
      views, I should like to have your opinion on an abstract question of
      morality. What do you think, my dear sir, of pious frauds in general?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone looked a little embarrassed by the question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I put it more plainly?&rdquo; continued Captain Wragge. &ldquo;What do you say
      to the universally-accepted maxim that &lsquo;all stratagems are fair in love
      and war&rsquo;?&mdash;Yes or No?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; answered Noel Vanstone, with the utmost readiness.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One more question and I have done,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Do you see any
      particular objection to practicing a pious fraud on Mrs. Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s resolution began to falter a little.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Lecount likely to find it out?&rdquo; he asked cautiously.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She can&rsquo;t possibly discover it until you are married and out of her
      reach.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are sure of that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite sure.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Play any trick you like on Lecount,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, with an air of
      unutterable relief. &ldquo;I have had my suspicions lately that she is trying to
      domineer over me; I am beginning to feel that I have borne with Lecount
      long enough. I wish I was well rid of her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall have your wish,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;You shall be rid of her
      in a week or ten days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone rose eagerly and approached the captain&rsquo;s chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t say so!&rdquo; he exclaimed. &ldquo;How do you mean to send her away?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean to send her on a journey,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;From your house at Aldborough to her brother&rsquo;s bedside at Zurich.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone started back at the answer, and returned suddenly to his
      chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How can you do that?&rdquo; he inquired, in the greatest perplexity. &ldquo;Her
      brother (hang him!) is much better. She had another letter from Zurich to
      say so, this morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you see the letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. She always worries about her brother&mdash;she <i>would</i> show it
      to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who was it from? and what did it say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It was from the doctor&mdash;he always writes to her. I don&rsquo;t care two
      straws about her brother, and I don&rsquo;t remember much of the letter, except
      that it was a short one. The fellow was much better; and if the doctor
      didn&rsquo;t write again, she might take it for granted that he was getting
      well. That was the substance of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you notice where she put the letter when you gave it her back again?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. She put it in the drawer where she keeps her account-books.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can you get at that drawer?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course I can. I have got a duplicate key&mdash;I always insist on a
      duplicate key of the place where she keeps her account books. I never
      allow the account-books to be locked up from my inspection: it&rsquo;s a rule of
      the house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be so good as to get that letter to-day, Mr. Vanstone, without your
      housekeeper&rsquo;s knowledge, and add to the favor by letting me have it here
      privately for an hour or two.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you want it for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have some more questions to ask before I tell you. Have you any
      intimate friend at Zurich whom you could trust to help you in playing a
      trick on Mrs. Lecount?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What sort of help do you mean?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose,&rdquo; said the captain, &ldquo;you were to send a letter addressed to Mrs.
      Lecount at Aldborough, inclosed in another letter addressed to one of your
      friends abroad? And suppose you were to instruct that friend to help a
      harmless practical joke by posting Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s letter at Zurich? Do you
      know any one who could be trusted to do that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know two people who could be trusted!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;Both
      ladies&mdash;both spinsters&mdash;both bitter enemies of Lecount&rsquo;s. But
      what is your drift, Mr. Bygrave? Though I am not usually wanting in
      penetration, I don&rsquo;t altogether see your drift.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall see it directly, Mr. Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words he rose, withdrew to his desk in the corner of the room,
      and wrote a few lines on a sheet of note-paper. After first reading them
      carefully to himself, he beckoned to Noel Vanstone to come and read them
      too.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A few minutes since,&rdquo; said the captain, pointing complacently to his own
      composition with the feather end of his pen, &ldquo;I had the honor of
      suggesting a pious fraud on Mrs. Lecount. There it is!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He resigned his chair at the writing-table to his visitor. Noel Vanstone
      sat down, and read these lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MADAM&mdash;Since I last wrote, I deeply regret to inform you
      that your brother has suffered a relapse. The symptoms are so serious,
      that it is my painful duty to summon you instantly to his bedside. I am
      making every effort to resist the renewed progress of the malady, and I
      have not yet lost all hope of success. But I cannot reconcile it to my
      conscience to leave you in ignorance of a serious change in my patient for
      the worse, which <i>may</i> be attended by fatal results. With much
      sympathy, I remain, etc. etc.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge waited with some anxiety for the effect which this letter
      might produce. Mean, selfish, and cowardly as he was, even Noel Vanstone
      might feel some compunction at practicing such a deception as was here
      suggested on a woman who stood toward him in the position of Mrs. Lecount.
      She had served him faithfully, however interested her motives might be&mdash;she
      had lived since he was a lad in the full possession of his father&rsquo;s
      confidence&mdash;she was living now under the protection of his own roof.
      Could be fail to remember this; and, remembering it, could he lend his aid
      without hesitation to the scheme which was now proposed to him? Captain
      Wragge unconsciously retained belief enough in human nature to doubt it.
      To his surprise, and, it must be added, to his relief, also, his
      apprehensions proved to be groundless. The only emotions aroused in Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s mind by a perusal of the letter were a hearty admiration of his
      friend&rsquo;s idea, and a vainglorious anxiety to claim the credit to himself
      of being the person who carried it out. Examples may be found every day of
      a fool who is no coward; examples may be found occasionally of a fool who
      is not cunning; but it may reasonably be doubted whether there is a
      producible instance anywhere of a fool who is not cruel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perfect!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, clapping his hands. &ldquo;Mr. Bygrave, you are
      as good as Figaro in the French comedy. Talking of French, there is one
      serious mistake in this clever letter of yours&mdash;it is written in the
      wrong language. When the doctor writes to Lecount, he writes in French.
      Perhaps you meant me to translate it? You can&rsquo;t manage without my help,
      can you? I write French as fluently as I write English. Just look at me!
      I&rsquo;ll translate it, while I sit here, in two strokes of the pen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He completed the translation almost as rapidly as Captain Wragge had
      produced the original. &ldquo;Wait a minute!&rdquo; he cried, in high critical triumph
      at discovering another defect in the composition of his ingenious friend.
      &ldquo;The doctor always dates his letters. Here is no date to yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I leave the date to you,&rdquo; said the captain, with a sardonic smile. &ldquo;You
      have discovered the fault, my dear sir&mdash;pray correct it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone mentally looked into the great gulf which separates the
      faculty that can discover a defect, from the faculty that can apply a
      remedy, and, following the example of many a wiser man, declined to cross
      over it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I couldn&rsquo;t think of taking the liberty,&rdquo; he said, politely. &ldquo;Perhaps you
      had a motive for leaving the date out?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps I had,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge, with his easiest good-humor. &ldquo;The
      date must depend on the time a letter takes to get to Zurich. <i>I</i>
      have had no experience on that point&mdash;<i>you</i> must have had plenty
      of experience in your father&rsquo;s time. Give me the benefit of your
      information, and we will add the date before you leave the writing-table.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s experience was, as Captain Wragge had anticipated,
      perfectly competent to settle the question of time. The railway resources
      of the Continent (in the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven) were but
      scanty; and a letter sent at that period from England to Zurich, and from
      Zurich back again to England, occupied ten days in making the double
      journey by post.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Date the letter in French five days on from to-morrow,&rdquo; said the captain,
      when he had got his information. &ldquo;Very good. The next thing is to let me
      have the doctor&rsquo;s note as soon as you can. I may be obliged to practice
      some hours before I can copy your translation in an exact imitation of the
      doctor&rsquo;s handwriting. Have you got any foreign note-paper? Let me have a
      few sheets, and send, at the same time, an envelope addressed to one of
      those lady-friends of yours at Zurich, accompanied by the necessary
      request to post the inclosure. This is all I need trouble you to do, Mr.
      Vanstone. Don&rsquo;t let me seem inhospitable; but the sooner you can supply me
      with my materials, the better I shall be pleased. We entirely understand
      each other, I suppose? Having accepted your proposal for my niece&rsquo;s hand,
      I sanction a private marriage in consideration of the circumstances on
      your side. A little harmless stratagem is necessary to forward your views.
      I invent the stratagem at your request, and you make use of it without the
      least hesitation. The result is, that in ten days from to-morrow Mrs.
      Lecount will be on her way to Switzerland; in fifteen days from to-morrow
      Mrs. Lecount will reach Zurich, and discover the trick we have played her;
      in twenty days from to-morrow Mrs. Lecount will be back at Aldborough, and
      will find her master&rsquo;s wedding-cards on the table, and her master himself
      away on his honey-moon trip. I put it arithmetically, for the sake of
      putting it plain. God bless you. Good-morning!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose I may have the happiness of seeing Miss Bygrave to-morrow?&rdquo;
       said Noel Vanstone, turning round at the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We must be careful,&rdquo; replied Captain Wragge. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t forbid to-morrow,
      but I make no promise beyond that. Permit me to remind you that we have
      got Mrs. Lecount to manage for the next ten days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish Lecount was at the bottom of the German Ocean!&rdquo; exclaimed Noel
      Vanstone, fervently. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s all very well for you to manage her&mdash;you
      don&rsquo;t live in the house. What am I to do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll tell you to-morrow,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Go out for your walk alone,
      and drop in here, as you dropped in to-day, at two o&rsquo;clock. In the
      meantime, don&rsquo;t forget those things I want you to send me. Seal them up
      together in a large envelope. When you have done that, ask Mrs. Lecount to
      walk out with you as usual; and while she is upstairs putting her bonnet
      on, send the servant across to me. You understand? Good-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      An hour afterward, the sealed envelope, with its inclosures, reached
      Captain Wragge in perfect safety. The double task of exactly imitating a
      strange handwriting, and accurately copying words written in a language
      with which he was but slightly acquainted, presented more difficulties to
      be overcome than the captain had anticipated. It was eleven o&rsquo;clock before
      the employment which he had undertaken was successfully completed, and the
      letter to Zurich ready for the post.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before going to bed, he walked out on the deserted Parade to breathe the
      cool night air. All the lights were extinguished in Sea-view Cottage, when
      he looked that way, except the light in the housekeeper&rsquo;s window. Captain
      Wragge shook his head suspiciously. He had gained experience enough by
      this time to distrust the wakefulness of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IX.
    </h3>
    <p>
      IF Captain Wragge could have looked into Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s room while he
      stood on the Parade watching the light in her window, he would have seen
      the housekeeper sitting absorbed in meditation over a worthless little
      morsel of brown stuff which lay on her toilet-table.
    </p>
    <p>
      However exasperating to herself the conclusion might be, Mrs. Lecount
      could not fail to see that she had been thus far met and baffled
      successfully at every point. What was she to do next? If she sent for Mr.
      Pendril when he came to Aldborough (with only a few hours spared from his
      business at her disposal), what definite course would there be for him to
      follow? If she showed Noel Vanstone the original letter from which her
      note had been copied, he would apply instantly to the writer for an
      explanation: would expose the fabricated story by which Mrs. Lecount had
      succeeded in imposing on Miss Garth; and would, in any event, still
      declare, on the evidence of his own eyes, that the test by the marks on
      the neck had utterly failed. Miss Vanstone, the elder, whose unexpected
      presence at Aldborough might have done wonders&mdash;whose voice in the
      hall at North Shingles, even if she had been admitted no further, might
      have reached her sister&rsquo;s ears and led to instant results&mdash;Miss
      Vanstone, the elder, was out of the country, and was not likely to return
      for a month at least. Look as anxiously as Mrs. Lecount might along the
      course which she had hitherto followed, she failed to see her way through
      the accumulated obstacles which now barred her advance.
    </p>
    <p>
      Other women in this position might have waited until circumstances
      altered, and helped them. Mrs. Lecount boldly retraced her steps, and
      determined to find her way to her end in a new direction. Resigning for
      the present all further attempt to prove that the false Miss Bygrave was
      the true Magdalen Vanstone, she resolved to narrow the range of her next
      efforts; to leave the actual question of Magdalen&rsquo;s identity untouched;
      and to rest satisfied with convincing her master of this simple fact&mdash;that
      the young lady who was charming him at North Shingles, and the disguised
      woman who had terrified him in Vauxhall Walk, were one and the same
      person.
    </p>
    <p>
      The means of effecting this new object were, to all appearance, far less
      easy of attainment than the means of effecting the object which Mrs.
      Lecount had just resigned. Here no help was to be expected from others, no
      ostensibly benevolent motives could be put forward as a blind&mdash;no
      appeal could be made to Mr. Pendril or to Miss Garth. Here the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s only chance of success depended, in the first place, on her
      being able to effect a stolen entrance into Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s house, and, in
      the second place, on her ability to discover whether that memorable alpaca
      dress from which she had secretly cut the fragment of stuff happened to
      form part of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s wardrobe.
    </p>
    <p>
      Taking the difficulties now before her in their order as they occurred,
      Mrs. Lecount first resolved to devote the next few days to watching the
      habits of the inmates of North Shingles, from early in the morning to late
      at night, and to testing the capacity of the one servant in the house to
      resist the temptation of a bribe. Assuming that results proved successful,
      and that, either by money or by stratagem, she gained admission to North
      Shingles (without the knowledge of Mr. Bygrave or his niece), she turned
      next to the second difficulty of the two&mdash;the difficulty of obtaining
      access to Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s wardrobe.
    </p>
    <p>
      If the servant proved corruptible, all obstacles in this direction might
      be considered as removed beforehand. But if the servant proved honest, the
      new problem was no easy one to solve.
    </p>
    <p>
      Long and careful consideration of the question led the housekeeper at last
      to the bold resolution of obtaining an interview&mdash;if the servant
      failed her&mdash;with Mrs. Bygrave herself. What was the true cause of
      this lady&rsquo;s mysterious seclusion? Was she a person of the strictest and
      the most inconvenient integrity? or a person who could not be depended on
      to preserve a secret? or a person who was as artful as Mr. Bygrave
      himself, and who was kept in reserve to forward the object of some new
      deception which was yet to come? In the first two cases, Mrs. Lecount
      could trust in her own powers of dissimulation, and in the results which
      they might achieve. In the last case (if no other end was gained), it
      might be of vital importance to her to discover an enemy hidden in the
      dark. In any event, she determined to run the risk. Of the three chances
      in her favor on which she had reckoned at the outset of the struggle&mdash;the
      chance of entrapping Magdalen by word of mouth, the chance of entrapping
      her by the help of her friends, and the chance of entrapping her by means
      of Mrs. Bygrave&mdash;two had been tried, and two had failed. The third
      remained to be tested yet; and the third might succeed.
    </p>
    <p>
      So, the captain&rsquo;s enemy plotted against him in the privacy of her own
      chamber, while the captain watched the light in her window from the beach
      outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before breakfast the next morning, Captain Wragge posted the forged letter
      to Zurich with his own hand. He went back to North Shingles with his mind
      not quite decided on the course to take with Mrs. Lecount during the
      all-important interval of the next ten days.
    </p>
    <p>
      Greatly to his surprise, his doubts on this point were abruptly decided by
      Magdalen herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      He found her waiting for him in the room where the breakfast was laid. She
      was walking restlessly to and fro, with her head drooping on her bosom and
      her hair hanging disordered over her shoulders. The moment she looked up
      on his entrance, the captain felt the fear which Mrs. Wragge had felt
      before him&mdash;the fear that her mind would be struck prostrate again,
      as it had been struck once already, when Frank&rsquo;s letter reached her in
      Vauxhall Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is he coming again to-day?&rdquo; she asked, pushing away from her the chair
      which Captain Wragge offered, with such violence that she threw it on the
      floor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said the captain, wisely answering her in the fewest words. &ldquo;He is
      coming at two o&rsquo;clock.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take me away!&rdquo; she exclaimed, tossing her hair back wildly from her face.
      &ldquo;Take me away before he comes. I can&rsquo;t get over the horror of marrying him
      while I am in this hateful place; take me somewhere where I can forget it,
      or I shall go mad! Give me two days&rsquo; rest&mdash;two days out of sight of
      that horrible sea&mdash;two days out of prison in this horrible house&mdash;two
      days anywhere in the wide world away from Aldborough. I&rsquo;ll come back with
      you! I&rsquo;ll go through with it to the end! Only give me two days&rsquo; escape
      from that man and everything belonging to him! Do you hear, you villain?&rdquo;
       she cried, seizing his arm and shaking it in a frenzy of passion; &ldquo;I have
      been tortured enough&mdash;I can bear it no longer!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was but one way of quieting her, and the captain instantly took it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will try to control yourself,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;you shall leave
      Aldborough in an hour&rsquo;s time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She dropped his arm, and leaned back heavily against the wall behind her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll try,&rdquo; she answered, struggling for breath, but looking at him less
      wildly. &ldquo;You shan&rsquo;t complain of me, if I can help it.&rdquo; She attempted
      confusedly to take her handkerchief from her apron pocket, and failed to
      find it. The captain took it out for her. Her eyes softened, and she drew
      her breath more freely as she received the handkerchief from him. &ldquo;You are
      a kinder man than I thought you were,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I am sorry I spoke so
      passionately to you just now&mdash;I am very, very sorry.&rdquo; The tears stole
      into her eyes, and she offered him her hand with the native grace and
      gentleness of happier days. &ldquo;Be friends with me again,&rdquo; she said,
      pleadingly. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m only a girl, Captain Wragge&mdash;I&rsquo;m only a girl!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He took her hand in silence, patted it for a moment, and then opened the
      door for her to go back to her own room again. There was genuine regret in
      his face as he showed her that trifling attention. He was a vagabond and a
      cheat; he had lived a mean, shuffling, degraded life, but he was human;
      and she had found her way to the lost sympathies in him which not even the
      self-profanation of a swindler&rsquo;s existence could wholly destroy. &ldquo;Damn the
      breakfast!&rdquo; he said, when the servant came in for her orders. &ldquo;Go to the
      inn directly, and say I want a carriage and pair at the door in an hour&rsquo;s
      time.&rdquo; He went out into the passage, still chafing under a sense of mental
      disturbance which was new to him, and shouted to his wife more fiercely
      than ever&mdash;&ldquo;Pack up what we want for a week&rsquo;s absence, and be ready
      in half an hour!&rdquo; Having issued those directions, he returned to the
      breakfast-room, and looked at the half-spread table with an impatient
      wonder at his disinclination to do justice to his own meal. &ldquo;She has
      rubbed off the edge of my appetite,&rdquo; he said to himself, with a forced
      laugh. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll try a cigar, and a turn in the fresh air.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If he had been twenty years younger, those remedies might have failed him.
      But where is the man to be found whose internal policy succumbs to
      revolution when that man is on the wrong side of fifty? Exercise and
      change of place gave the captain back into the possession of himself. He
      recovered the lost sense of the flavor of his cigar, and recalled his
      wandering attention to the question of his approaching absence from
      Aldborough. A few minutes&rsquo; consideration satisfied his mind that
      Magdalen&rsquo;s outbreak had forced him to take the course of all others which,
      on a fair review of existing emergencies, it was now most desirable to
      adopt.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s inquiries on the evening when he and Magdalen had drunk
      tea at Sea View had certainly informed him that the housekeeper&rsquo;s brother
      possessed a modest competence; that his sister was his nearest living
      relative; and that there were some unscrupulous cousins on the spot who
      were anxious to usurp the place in his will which properly belonged to
      Mrs. Lecount. Here were strong motives to take the housekeeper to Zurich
      when the false report of her brother&rsquo;s relapse reached England. But if any
      idea of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s true position dawned on her in the meantime, who
      could say whether she might not, at the eleventh hour, prefer asserting
      her large pecuniary interest in her master, to defending her small
      pecuniary interest at her brother&rsquo;s bedside? While that question remained
      undecided, the plain necessity of checking the growth of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      intimacy with the family at North Shingles did not admit of a doubt; and
      of all means of effecting that object, none could be less open to
      suspicion than the temporary removal of the household from their residence
      at Aldborough. Thoroughly satisfied with the soundness of this conclusion,
      Captain Wragge made straight for Sea-view Cottage, to apologize and
      explain before the carriage came and the departure took place.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone was easily accessible to visitors; he was walking in the
      garden before breakfast. His disappointment and vexation were freely
      expressed when he heard the news which his friend had to communicate. The
      captain&rsquo;s fluent tongue, however, soon impressed on him the necessity of
      resignation to present circumstances. The bare hint that the &ldquo;pious fraud&rdquo;
       might fail after all, if anything happened in the ten days&rsquo; interval to
      enlighten Mrs. Lecount, had an instant effect in making Noel Vanstone as
      patient and as submissive as could be wished.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t tell you where we are going, for two good reasons,&rdquo; said Captain
      Wragge, when his preliminary explanations were completed. &ldquo;In the first
      place, I haven&rsquo;t made up my mind yet; and, in the second place, if you
      don&rsquo;t know where our destination is, Mrs. Lecount can&rsquo;t worm it out of
      you. I have not the least doubt she is watching us at this moment from
      behind her window-curtain. When she asks what I wanted with you this
      morning, tell her I came to say good-by for a few days, finding my niece
      not so well again, and wishing to take her on a short visit to some
      friends to try change of air. If you could produce an impression on Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s mind (without overdoing it), that you are a little disappointed
      in me, and that you are rather inclined to doubt my heartiness in
      cultivating your acquaintance, you will greatly help our present object.
      You may depend on our return to North Shingles in four or five days at
      furthest. If anything strikes me in the meanwhile, the post is always at
      our service, and I won&rsquo;t fail to write to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Won&rsquo;t Miss Bygrave write to me?&rdquo; inquired Noel Vanstone, piteously. &ldquo;Did
      she know you were coming here? Did she send me no message?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Unpardonable on my part to have forgotten it!&rdquo; cried the captain. &ldquo;She
      sent you her love.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone closed his eyes in silent ecstasy.
    </p>
    <p>
      When he opened them again Captain Wragge had passed through the garden
      gate and was on his way back to North Shingles. As soon as his own door
      had closed on him, Mrs. Lecount descended from the post of observation
      which the captain had rightly suspected her of occupying, and addressed
      the inquiry to her master which the captain had rightly foreseen would
      follow his departure. The reply she received produced but one impression
      on her mind. She at once set it down as a falsehood, and returned to her
      own window to keep watch over North Shingles more vigilantly than ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      To her utter astonishment, after a lapse of less than half an hour she saw
      an empty carriage draw up at Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s door. Luggage was brought out
      and packed on the vehicle. Miss Bygrave appeared, and took her seat in it.
      She was followed into the carriage by a lady of great size and stature,
      whom the housekeeper conjectured to be Mrs. Bygrave. The servant came
      next, and stood waiting on the path. The last person to appear was Mr.
      Bygrave. He locked the house door, and took the key away with him to a
      cottage near at hand, which was the residence of the landlord of North
      Shingles. On his return, he nodded to the servant, who walked away by
      herself toward the humbler quarter of the little town, and joined the
      ladies in the carriage. The coachman mounted the box, and the vehicle
      disappeared.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount laid down the opera-glass, through which she had been closely
      investigating these proceedings, with a feeling of helpless perplexity
      which she was almost ashamed to acknowledge to herself. The secret of Mr.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s object in suddenly emptying his house at Aldborough of every
      living creature in it was an impenetrable mystery to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Submitting herself to circumstances with a ready resignation which Captain
      Wragge had not shown, on his side, in a similar situation, Mrs. Lecount
      wasted neither time nor temper in unprofitable guess-work. She left the
      mystery to thicken or to clear, as the future might decide, and looked
      exclusively at the uses to which she might put the morning&rsquo;s event in her
      own interests. Whatever might have become of the family at North Shingles,
      the servant was left behind, and the servant was exactly the person whose
      assistance might now be of vital importance to the housekeeper&rsquo;s projects.
      Mrs. Lecount put on her bonnet, inspected the collection of loose silver
      in her purse, and set forth on the spot to make the servant&rsquo;s
      acquaintance.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went first to the cottage at which Mr. Bygrave had left the key of
      North Shingles, to discover the servant&rsquo;s present address from the
      landlord. So far as this object was concerned, her errand proved
      successful. The landlord knew that the girl had been allowed to go home
      for a few days to her friends, and knew in what part of Aldborough her
      friends lived. But here his sources of information suddenly dried up. He
      knew nothing of the destination to which Mr. Bygrave and his family had
      betaken themselves, and he was perfectly ignorant of the number of days
      over which their absence might be expected to extend. All he could say
      was, that he had not received a notice to quit from his tenant, and that
      he had been requested to keep the key of the house in his possession until
      Mr. Bygrave returned to claim it in his own person.
    </p>
    <p>
      Baffled, but not discouraged, Mrs. Lecount turned her steps next toward
      the back street of Aldborough, and astonished the servant&rsquo;s relatives by
      conferring on them the honor of a morning call.
    </p>
    <p>
      Easily imposed on at starting by Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s pretense of calling to
      engage her, under the impression that she had left Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s service,
      the servant did her best to answer the questions put to her. But she knew
      as little as the landlord of her master&rsquo;s plans. All she could say about
      them was, that she had not been dismissed, and that she was to await the
      receipt of a note recalling her when necessary to her situation at North
      Shingles. Not having expected to find her better informed on this part of
      the subject, Mrs. Lecount smoothly shifted her ground, and led the woman
      into talking generally of the advantages and defects of her situation in
      Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s family.
    </p>
    <p>
      Profiting by the knowledge gained, in this indirect manner, of the little
      secrets of the household, Mrs. Lecount made two discoveries. She found
      out, in the first place, that the servant (having enough to do in
      attending to the coarser part of the domestic work) was in no position to
      disclose the secrets of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s wardrobe, which were known only to
      the young lady herself and to her aunt. In the second place, the
      housekeeper ascertained that the true reason of Mrs. Bygrave&rsquo;s rigid
      seclusion was to be found in the simple fact that she was little better
      than an idiot, and that her husband was probably ashamed of allowing her
      to be seen in public. These apparently trivial discoveries enlightened
      Mrs. Lecount on a very important point which had been previously involved
      in doubt. She was now satisfied that the likeliest way to obtaining a
      private investigation of Magdalen&rsquo;s wardrobe lay through deluding the
      imbecile lady, and not through bribing the ignorant servant.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having reached that conclusion&mdash;pregnant with coming assaults on the
      weakly-fortified discretion of poor Mrs. Wragge&mdash;the housekeeper
      cautiously abstained from exhibiting herself any longer under an
      inquisitive aspect. She changed the conversation to local topics, waited
      until she was sure of leaving an excellent impression behind her, and then
      took her leave.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three days passed; and Mrs. Lecount and her master&mdash;each with their
      widely-different ends in view&mdash;watched with equal anxiety for the
      first signs of returning life in the direction of North Shingles. In that
      interval, no letter either from the uncle or the niece arrived for Noel
      Vanstone. His sincere feeling of irritation under this neglectful
      treatment greatly assisted the effect of those feigned doubts on the
      subject of his absent friends which the captain had recommended him to
      express in the housekeeper&rsquo;s presence. He confessed his apprehensions of
      having been mistaken, not in Mr. Bygrave only, but even in his niece as
      well, with such a genuine air of annoyance that he actually contributed a
      new element of confusion to the existing perplexities of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the morning of the fourth day Noel Vanstone met the postman in the
      garden; and, to his great relief, discovered among the letters delivered
      to him a note from Mr. Bygrave.
    </p>
    <p>
      The date of the note was &ldquo;Woodbridge,&rdquo; and it contained a few lines only.
      Mr. Bygrave mentioned that his niece was better, and that she sent her
      love as before. He proposed returning to Aldborough on the next day, when
      he would have some new considerations of a strictly private nature to
      present to Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s mind. In the meantime he would beg Mr.
      Vanstone not to call at North Shingles until he received a special
      invitation to do so&mdash;which invitation should certainly be given on
      the day when the family returned. The motive of this apparently strange
      request should be explained to Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s perfect satisfaction when he
      was once more united to his friends. Until that period arrived, the
      strictest caution was enjoined on him in all his communications with Mrs.
      Lecount; and the instant destruction of Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s letter, after due
      perusal of it, was (if the classical phrase might be pardoned) a <i>sine
      qua non</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fifth day came. Noel Vanstone (after submitting himself to the <i>sine
      qua non</i>, and destroying the letter) waited anxiously for results;
      while Mrs. Lecount, on her side, watched patiently for events. Toward
      three o&rsquo;clock in the afternoon the carriage appeared again at the gate of
      North Shingles. Mr. Bygrave got out and tripped away briskly to the
      landlord&rsquo;s cottage for the key. He returned with the servant at his heels.
      Miss Bygrave left the carriage; her giant relative followed her example;
      the house door was opened; the trunks were taken off; the carriage
      disappeared, and the Bygraves were at home again!
    </p>
    <p>
      Four o&rsquo;clock struck, five o&rsquo;clock, six o&rsquo;clock, and nothing happened. In
      half an hour more, Mr. Bygrave&mdash;spruce, speckless, and respectable as
      ever&mdash;appeared on the Parade, sauntering composedly in the direction
      of Sea View.
    </p>
    <p>
      Instead of at once entering the house, he passed it; stopped, as if struck
      by a sudden recollection; and, retracing his steps, asked for Mr. Vanstone
      at the door. Mr. Vanstone came out hospitably into the passage. Pitching
      his voice to a tone which could be easily heard by any listening
      individual through any open door in the bedroom regions, Mr. Bygrave
      announced the object of his visit on the door-mat in the fewest possible
      words. He had been staying with a distant relative. The distant relative
      possessed two pictures&mdash;Gems by the Old Masters&mdash;which he was
      willing to dispose of, and which he had intrusted for that purpose to Mr.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s care. If Mr. Noel Vanstone, as an amateur in such matters,
      wished to see the Gems, they would be visible in half an hour&rsquo;s time, when
      Mr. Bygrave would have returned to North Shingles.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having delivered himself of this incomprehensible announcement, the
      arch-conspirator laid his significant forefinger along the side of his
      short Roman nose, said, &ldquo;Fine weather, isn&rsquo;t it? Good-afternoon!&rdquo; and
      sauntered out inscrutably to continue his walk on the Parade.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the expiration of the half-hour Noel Vanstone presented himself at
      North Shingles, with the ardor of a lover burning inextinguishably in his
      bosom, through the superincumbent mental fog of a thoroughly bewildered
      man. To his inexpressible happiness, he found Magdalen alone in the
      parlor. Never yet had she looked so beautiful in his eyes. The rest and
      relief of her four days&rsquo; absence from Aldborough had not failed to produce
      their results; she had more than recovered her composure. Vibrating
      perpetually from one violent extreme to another, she had now passed from
      the passionate despair of five days since to a feverish exaltation of
      spirits which defied all remorse and confronted all consequences. Her eyes
      sparkled; her cheeks were bright with color; she talked incessantly, with
      a forlorn mockery of the girlish gayety of past days; she laughed with a
      deplorable persistency in laughing; she imitated Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s smooth
      voice, and Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s insinuating graces of manner with an overcharged
      resemblance to the original, which was but the coarse reflection of the
      delicately-accurate mimicry of former times. Noel Vanstone, who had never
      yet seen her as he saw her now, was enchanted; his weak head whirled with
      an intoxication of enjoyment; his wizen cheeks flushed as if they had
      caught the infection from hers. The half-hour during which he was alone
      with her passed like five minutes to him. When that time had elapsed, and
      when she suddenly left him&mdash;to obey a previously-arranged summons to
      her aunt&rsquo;s presence&mdash;miser as he was, he would have paid at that
      moment five golden sovereigns out of his pocket for five golden minutes
      more passed in her society.
    </p>
    <p>
      The door had hardly closed on Magdalen before it opened again, and the
      captain walked in. He entered on the explanations which his visitor
      naturally expected from him with the unceremonious abruptness of a man
      hard pressed for time, and determined to make the most of every moment at
      his disposal.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Since we last saw each other,&rdquo; he began, &ldquo;I have been reckoning up the
      chances for and against us as we stand at present. The result on my own
      mind is this: If you are still at Aldborough when that letter from Zurich
      reaches Mrs. Lecount, all the pains we have taken will have been pains
      thrown away. If your housekeeper had fifty brothers all dying together,
      she would throw the whole fifty over sooner than leave you alone at Sea
      View while we are your neighbors at North Shingles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s flushed cheek turned pale with dismay. His own knowledge
      of Mrs. Lecount told him that this view of the case was the right one.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If <i>we</i> go away again,&rdquo; proceeded the captain, &ldquo;nothing will be
      gained, for nothing would persuade your housekeeper, in that case, that we
      have not left you the means of following us. <i>You</i> must leave
      Aldborough this time; and, what is more, you must go without leaving a
      single visible trace behind you for us to follow. If we accomplish this
      object in the course of the next five days, Mrs. Lecount will take the
      journey to Zurich. If we fail, she will be a fixture at Sea View, to a
      dead certainty. Don&rsquo;t ask questions! I have got your instructions ready
      for you, and I want your closest attention to them. Your marriage with my
      niece depends on your not forgetting a word of what I am now going to tell
      you.&mdash;One question first. Have you followed my advice? Have you told
      Mrs. Lecount you are beginning to think yourself mistaken in me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I did worse than that,&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone penitently. &ldquo;I committed an
      outrage on my own feelings. I disgraced myself by saying that I doubted
      Miss Bygrave!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go on disgracing yourself, my dear sir! Doubt us both with all your
      might, and I&rsquo;ll help you. One question more. Did I speak loud enough this
      afternoon? Did Mrs. Lecount hear me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. Lecount opened her door; Lecount heard you. What made you give me
      that message? I see no pictures here. Is this another pious fraud, Mr.
      Bygrave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Admirably guessed, Mr. Vanstone! You will see the object of my imaginary
      picture-dealing in the very next words which I am now about to address to
      you. When you get back to Sea View, this is what you are to say to Mrs.
      Lecount. Tell her that my relative&rsquo;s works of Art are two worthless
      pictures&mdash;copies from the Old Masters, which I have tried to sell you
      as originals at an exorbitant price. Say you suspect me of being little
      better than a plausible impostor, and pity my unfortunate niece for being
      associated with such a rascal as I am. There is your text to speak from.
      Say in many words what I have just said in a few. You can do that, can&rsquo;t
      you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Of course I can do it,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;But I can tell you one thing&mdash;Lecount
      won&rsquo;t believe me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait a little, Mr. Vanstone; I have not done with my instructions yet.
      You understand what I have just told you? Very good. We may get on from
      to-day to to-morrow. Go out to-morrow with Mrs. Lecount at your usual
      time. I will meet you on the Parade, and bow to you. Instead of returning
      my bow, look the other way. In plain English, cut me! That is easy enough
      to do, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She won&rsquo;t believe me, Mr. Bygrave&mdash;she won&rsquo;t believe me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait a little again, Mr. Vanstone. There are more instructions to come.
      You have got your directions for to-day, and you have got your directions
      for to-morrow. Now for the day after. The day after is the seventh day
      since we sent the letter to Zurich. On the seventh day decline to go out
      walking as before, from dread of the annoyance of meeting me again.
      Grumble about the smallness of the place; complain of your health; wish
      you had never come to Aldborough, and never made acquaintances with the
      Bygraves; and when you have well worried Mrs. Lecount with your
      discontent, ask her on a sudden if she can&rsquo;t suggest a change for the
      better. If you put that question to her naturally, do you think she can be
      depended on to answer it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She won&rsquo;t want to be questioned at all,&rdquo; replied Noel Vanstone,
      irritably. &ldquo;I have only got to say I am tired of Aldborough; and, if she
      believes me&mdash;which she won&rsquo;t; I&rsquo;m quite positive, Mr. Bygrave, she
      won&rsquo;t!&mdash;she will have her suggestion ready before I can ask for it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay! ay!&rdquo; said the captain eagerly. &ldquo;There is some place, then, that Mrs.
      Lecount wants to go to this autumn?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She wants to go there (hang her!) every autumn.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To go where?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s&mdash;you don&rsquo;t know him, do you?&mdash;at St.
      Crux-in-the-Marsh.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t lose your patience, Mr. Vanstone! What you are now telling me is of
      the most vital importance to the object we ha ve in view. Who is Admiral
      Bartram?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;An old friend of my father&rsquo;s. My father laid him under obligations&mdash;my
      father lent him money when they were both young men. I am like one of the
      family at St. Crux; my room is always kept ready for me. Not that there&rsquo;s
      any family at the admiral&rsquo;s except his nephew, George Bartram. George is
      my cousin; I&rsquo;m as intimate with George as my father was with the admiral;
      and I&rsquo;ve been sharper than my father, for I haven&rsquo;t lent my friend any
      money. Lecount always makes a show of liking George&mdash;I believe to
      annoy me. She likes the admiral, too; he flatters her vanity. He always
      invites her to come with me to St. Crux. He lets her have one of the best
      bedrooms, and treats her as if she was a lady. She is as proud as Lucifer&mdash;she
      likes being treated like a lady&mdash;and she pesters me every autumn to
      go to St. Crux. What&rsquo;s the matter? What are you taking out your pocketbook
      for?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want the admiral&rsquo;s address, Mr. Vanstone, for a purpose which I will
      explain immediately.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words, Captain Wragge opened his pocketbook and wrote down the
      address from Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s dictation, as follows: &ldquo;Admiral Bartram, St.
      Crux-in-the-Marsh, near Ossory, Essex.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good!&rdquo; cried the captain, closing his pocketbook again. &ldquo;The only
      difficulty that stood in our way is now cleared out of it. Patience, Mr.
      Vanstone&mdash;patience! Let us take up my instructions again at the point
      where we dropped them. Give me five minutes&rsquo; more attention, and you will
      see your way to your marriage as plainly as I see it. On the day after
      to-morrow you declare you are tired of Aldborough, and Mrs. Lecount
      suggests St. Crux. You don&rsquo;t say yes or no on the spot; you take the next
      day to consider it, and you make up your mind the last thing at night to
      go to St. Crux the first thing in the morning. Are you in the habit of
      superintending your own packing up, or do you usually shift all the
      trouble of it on Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s shoulders?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lecount has all the trouble, of course; Lecount is paid for it! But I
      don&rsquo;t really go, do I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You go as fast as horses can take you to the railway without having held
      any previous communication with this house, either personally or by
      letter. You leave Mrs. Lecount behind to pack up your curiosities, to
      settle with the tradespeople, and to follow you to St. Crux the next
      morning. The next morning is the tenth morning. On the tenth morning she
      receives the letter from Zurich; and if you only carry out my
      instructions, Mr. Vanstone, as sure as you sit there, to Zurich she goes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s color began to rise again, as the captain&rsquo;s stratagem
      dawned on him at last in its true light.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And what am I to do at St. Crux?&rdquo; he inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait there till I call for you,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;As soon as Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s back is turned, I will go to the church here and give the
      necessary notice of the marriage. The same day or the next, I will travel
      to the address written down in my pocketbook, pick you up at the
      admiral&rsquo;s, and take you on to London with me to get the license. With that
      document in our possession, we shall be on our way back to Aldborough
      while Mrs. Lecount is on her way out to Zurich; and before she starts on
      her return journey, you and my niece will be man and wife! There are your
      future prospects for you. What do you think of them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What a head you have got!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, in a sudden outburst of
      enthusiasm. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re the most extraordinary man I ever met with. One would
      think you had done nothing all your life but take people in.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge received that unconscious tribute to his native genius with
      the complacency of a man who felt that he thoroughly deserved it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have told you already, my dear sir,&rdquo; he said, modestly, &ldquo;that I never
      do things by halves. Pardon me for reminding you that we have no time for
      exchanging mutual civilities. Are you quite sure about your instructions?
      I dare not write them down for fear of accidents. Try the system of
      artificial memory; count your instructions off after me, on your thumb and
      your four fingers. To-day you tell Mrs. Lecount I have tried to take you
      in with my relative&rsquo;s works of Art. To-morrow you cut me on the Parade.
      The day after you refuse to go out, you get tired of Aldborough, and you
      allow Mrs. Lecount to make her suggestion. The next day you accept the
      suggestion. And the next day to that you go to St. Crux. Once more, my
      dear sir! Thumb&mdash;works of Art. Forefinger&mdash;cut me on the Parade.
      Middle finger&mdash;tired of Aldborough. Third finger&mdash;take Lecount&rsquo;s
      advice. Little finger&mdash;off to St. Crux. Nothing can be clearer&mdash;nothing
      can be easier to do. Is there anything you don&rsquo;t understand? Anything that
      I can explain over again before you go?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only one thing,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone. &ldquo;Is it settled that I am not to come
      here again before I go to St. Crux?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Most decidedly!&rdquo; answered the captain. &ldquo;The whole success of the
      enterprise depends on your keeping away. Mrs. Lecount will try the
      credibility of everything you say to her by one test&mdash;the test of
      your communicating, or not, with this house. She will watch you night and
      day! Don&rsquo;t call here, don&rsquo;t send messages, don&rsquo;t write letters; don&rsquo;t even
      go out by yourself. Let her see you start for St. Crux on her suggestion,
      with the absolute certainty in her own mind that you have followed her
      advice without communicating it in any form whatever to me or to my niece.
      Do that, and she <i>must</i> believe you, on the best of all evidence for
      our interests, and the worst for hers&mdash;the evidence of her own
      senses.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those last words of caution, he shook the little man warmly by the
      hand and sent him home on the spot.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER X.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ON returning to Sea View, Noel Vanstone executed the instructions which
      prescribed his line of conduct for the first of the five days with
      unimpeachable accuracy. A faint smile of contempt hovered about Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s lips while the story of Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s attempt to pass off his
      spurious pictures as originals was in progress, but she did not trouble
      herself to utter a single word of remark when it had come to an end. &ldquo;Just
      what I said!&rdquo; thought Noel Vanstone, cunningly watching her face; &ldquo;she
      doesn&rsquo;t believe a word of it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next day the meeting occurred on the Parade. Mr. Bygrave took off his
      hat, and Noel Vanstone looked the other way. The captain&rsquo;s start of
      surprise and scowl of indignation were executed to perfection, but they
      plainly failed to impose on Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I am afraid, sir, you have
      offended Mr. Bygrave to-day,&rdquo; she ironically remarked. &ldquo;Happily for you,
      he is an excellent Christian! and I venture to predict that he will
      forgive you to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone wisely refrained from committing himself to an answer. Once
      more he privately applauded his own penetration; once more he triumphed
      over his ingenious friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus far the captain&rsquo;s instructions had been too clear and simple to be
      mistaken by any one. But they advanced in complication with the advance of
      time, and on the third day Noel Vanstone fell confusedly into the
      commission of a slight error. After expressing the necessary weariness of
      Aldborough, and the consequent anxiety for change of scene, he was met (as
      he had anticipated) by an immediate suggestion from the housekeeper,
      recommending a visit to St. Crux. In giving his answer to the advice thus
      tendered, he made his first mistake. Instead of deferring his decision
      until the next day, he accepted Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s suggestion on the day when
      it was offered to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The consequences of this error were of no great importance. The
      housekeeper merely set herself to watch her master one day earlier than
      had been calculated on&mdash;a result which had been already provided for
      by the wise precautionary measure of forbidding Noel Vanstone all
      communication with North Shingles. Doubting, as Captain Wragge had
      foreseen, the sincerity of her master&rsquo;s desire to break off his connection
      with the Bygraves by going to St. Crux, Mrs. Lecount tested the truth or
      falsehood of the impression produced on her own mind by vigilantly
      watching for signs of secret communication on one side or on the other.
      The close attention with which she had hitherto observed the out-goings
      and in-comings at North Shingles was now entirely transferred to her
      master. For the rest of that third day she never let him out of her sight;
      she never allowed any third person who came to the house, on any pretense
      whatever, a minute&rsquo;s chance of private communication with him. At
      intervals through the night she stole to the door of his room, to listen
      and assure herself that he was in bed; and before sunrise the next
      morning, the coast-guardsman going his rounds was surprised to see a lady
      who had risen as early as himself engaged over her work at one of the
      upper windows of Sea View.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the fourth morning Noel Vanstone came down to breakfast conscious of
      the mistake that he had committed on the previous day. The obvious course
      to take, for the purpose of gaining time, was to declare that his mind was
      still undecided. He made the assertion boldly when the housekeeper asked
      him if he meant to move that day. Again Mrs. Lecount offered no remark,
      and again the signs and tokens of incredulity showed themselves in her
      face. Vacillation of purpose was not at all unusual in her experience of
      her master. But on this occasion she believed that his caprice of conduct
      was assumed for the purpose of gaining time to communicate with North
      Shingles, and she accordingly set her watch on him once more with doubled
      and trebled vigilance.
    </p>
    <p>
      No letters came that morning. Toward noon the weather changed for the
      worse, and all idea of walking out as usual was abandoned. Hour after
      hour, while her master sat in one of the parlors, Mrs. Lecount kept watch
      in the other, with the door into the passage open, and with a full view of
      North Shingles through the convenient side-window at which she had
      established herself. Not a sign that was suspicious appeared, not a sound
      that was suspicious caught her ear. As the evening closed in, her master&rsquo;s
      hesitation came to an end. He was disgusted with the weather; he hated the
      place; he foresaw the annoyance of more meetings with Mr. Bygrave, and he
      was determined to go to St. Crux the first thing the next morning. Lecount
      could stay behind to pack up the curiosities and settle with the
      trades-people, and could follow him to the admiral&rsquo;s on the next day. The
      housekeeper was a little staggered by the tone and manner in which he gave
      these orders. He had, to her own certain knowledge, effected no
      communication of any sort with North Shingles, and yet he seemed
      determined to leave Aldborough at the earliest possible opportunity. For
      the first time she hesitated in her adherence to her own conclusions. She
      remembered that her master had complained of the Bygraves before they
      returned to Aldborough; and she was conscious that her own incredulity had
      once already misled her when the appearance of the traveling-carriage at
      the door had proved even Mr. Bygrave himself to be as good as his word.
    </p>
    <p>
      Still Mrs. Lecount determined to act with unrelenting caution to the last.
      That night, when the doors were closed, she privately removed the keys
      from the door in front and the door at the back. She then softly opened
      her bedroom window and sat down by it, with her bonnet and cloak on, to
      prevent her taking cold. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s window was on the same side of
      the house as her own. If any one came in the dark to speak to him from the
      garden beneath, they would speak to his housekeeper as well. Prepared at
      all points to intercept every form of clandestine communication which
      stratagem could invent, Mrs. Lecount watched through the quiet night. When
      morning came, she stole downstairs before the servant was up, restored the
      keys to their places, and re-occupied her position in the parlor until
      Noel Vanstone made his appearance at the breakfast-table. Had he altered
      his mind? No. He declined posting to the railway on account of the
      expense, but he was as firm as ever in his resolution to go to St. Crux.
      He desired that an inside place might be secured for him in the early
      coach. Suspicious to the last, Mrs. Lecount sent the baker&rsquo;s man to take
      the place. He was a public servant, and Mr. Bygrave would not suspect him
      of performing a private errand.
    </p>
    <p>
      The coach called at Sea View. Mrs. Lecount saw her master established in
      his place, and ascertained that the other three inside seats were already
      occupied by strangers. She inquired of the coachman if the outside places
      (all of which were not yet filled up) had their full complement of
      passengers also. The man replied in the affirmative. He had two gentlemen
      to call for in the town, and the others would take their places at the
      inn. Mrs. Lecount forthwith turned her steps toward the inn, and took up
      her position on the Parade opposite from a point of view which would
      enable her to see the last of the coach on its departure. In ten minutes
      more it rattled away, full outside and in; and the housekeeper&rsquo;s own eyes
      assured her that neither Mr. Bygrave himself, nor any one belonging to
      North Shingles, was among the passengers.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was only one more precaution to take, and Mrs. Lecount did not
      neglect it. Mr. Bygrave had doubtless seen the coach call at Sea View. He
      might hire a carriage and follow it to the railway on pure speculation.
      Mrs. Lecount remained within view of the inn (the only place at which a
      carriage could be obtained) for nearly an hour longer, waiting for events.
      Nothing happened; no carriage made its appearance; no pursuit of Noel
      Vanstone was now within the range of human possibility. The long strain on
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s mind relaxed at last. She left her seat on the Parade, and
      returned in higher spirits than usual, to perform the closing household
      ceremonies at Sea View.
    </p>
    <p>
      She sat down alone in the parlor and drew a long breath of relief. Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s calculations had not deceived him. The evidence of her own senses
      had at last conquered the housekeeper&rsquo;s incredulity, and had literally
      forced her into the opposite extreme of belief.
    </p>
    <p>
      Estimating the events of the last three days from her own experience of
      them; knowing (as she certainly knew) that the first idea of going to St.
      Crux had been started by herself, and that her master had found no
      opportunity and shown no inclination to inform the family at North
      Shingles that he had accepted her proposal, Mrs. Lecount was fairly
      compelled to acknowledge that not a fragment of foundation remained to
      justify the continued suspicion of treachery in her own mind. Looking at
      the succession of circumstances under the new light thrown on them by
      results, she could see nothing unaccountable, nothing contradictory
      anywhere. The attempt to pass off the forged pictures as originals was in
      perfect harmony with the character of such a man as Mr. Bygrave. Her
      master&rsquo;s indignation at the attempt to impose on him; his
      plainly-expressed suspicion that Miss Bygrave was privy to it; his
      disappointment in the niece; his contemptuous treatment of the uncle on
      the Parade; his weariness of the place which had been the scene of his
      rash intimacy with strangers, and his readiness to quit it that morning,
      all commended themselves as genuine realities to the housekeeper&rsquo;s mind,
      for one sufficient reason. Her own eyes had seen Noel Vanstone take his
      departure from Aldborough without leaving, or attempting to leave, a
      single trace behind him for the Bygraves to follow.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus far the housekeeper&rsquo;s conclusions led her, but no further. She was
      too shrewd a woman to trust the future to chance and fortune. Her master&rsquo;s
      variable temper might relent. Accident might at any time give Mr. Bygrave
      an opportunity of repairing the error that he had committed, and of
      artfully regaining his lost place in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s estimation. Admitting
      that circumstances had at last declared themselves unmistakably in her
      favor, Mrs. Lecount was not the less convinced that nothing would
      permanently assure her master&rsquo;s security for the future but the plain
      exposure of the conspiracy which she had striven to accomplish from the
      first&mdash;which she was resolved to accomplish still.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I always enjoy myself at St. Crux,&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount, opening her
      account-books, and sorting the tradesmen&rsquo;s bills. &ldquo;The admiral is a
      gentleman, the house is noble, the table is excellent. No matter! Here at
      Sea View I stay by myself till I have seen the inside of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s
      wardrobe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She packed her master&rsquo;s collection of curiosities in their various cases,
      settled the claims of the trades-people, and superintended the covering of
      the furniture in the course of the day. Toward nightfall she went out,
      bent on investigation, and ventured into the garden at North Shingles
      under cover of the darkness. She saw the light in the parlor window, and
      the lights in the windows of the rooms upstairs, as usual. After an
      instant&rsquo;s hesitation she stole to the house door, and noiselessly tried
      the handle from the outside. It turned the lock as she had expected, from
      her experience of houses at Aldborough and at other watering-places, but
      the door resisted her; the door was distrustfully bolted on the inside.
      After making that discovery, she went round to the back of the house, and
      ascertained that the door on that side was secured in the same manner.
      &ldquo;Bolt your doors, Mr. Bygrave, as fast as you like,&rdquo; said the housekeeper,
      stealing back again to the Parade. &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t bolt the entrance to your
      servant&rsquo;s pocket. The best lock you have may be opened by a golden key.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went back to bed. The ceaseless watching, the unrelaxing excitement of
      the last two days, had worn her out.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next morning she rose at seven o&rsquo;clock. In half an hour more she saw
      the punctual Mr. Bygrave&mdash;as she had seen him on many previous
      mornings at the same time&mdash;issue from the gate of North Shingles,
      with his towels under his arm, and make his way to a boat that was waiting
      for him on the beach. Swimming was one among the many personal
      accomplishments of which the captain was master. He was rowed out to sea
      every morning, and took his bath luxuriously in the deep blue water. Mrs.
      Lecount had already computed the time consumed in this recreation by her
      watch, and had discovered that a full hour usually elapsed from the moment
      when he embarked on the beach to the moment when he returned.
    </p>
    <p>
      During that period she had never seen any other inhabitant of North
      Shingles leave the house. The servant was no doubt at her work in the
      kitchen; Mrs. Bygrave was probably still in her bed; and Miss Bygrave (if
      she was up at that early hour) had perhaps received directions not to
      venture out in her uncle&rsquo;s absence. The difficulty of meeting the obstacle
      of Magdalen&rsquo;s presence in the house had been, for some days past, the one
      difficulty which all Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s ingenuity had thus far proved unable
      to overcome.
    </p>
    <p>
      She sat at the window for a quarter of an hour after the captain&rsquo;s boat
      had left the beach with her mind hard at work, and her eyes fixed
      mechanically on North Shingles&mdash;she sat considering what written
      excuse she could send to her master for delaying her departure from
      Aldborough for some days to come&mdash;when the door of the house she was
      watching suddenly opened, and Magdalen herself appeared in the garden.
      There was no mistaking her figure and her dress. She took a few steps
      hastily toward the gate, stopped and pulled down the veil of her garden
      hat as if she felt the clear morning light too much for her, then hurried
      out on the Parade and walked away northward, in such haste, or in such
      pre-occupation of mind, that she went through the garden gate without
      closing it after her.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount started up from her chair with a moment&rsquo;s doubt of the
      evidence of her own eyes. Had the opportunity which she had been vainly
      plotting to produce actually offered itself to her of its own accord? Had
      the chances declared themselves at last in her favor, after steadily
      acting against her for so long? There was no doubt of it: in the popular
      phrase, &ldquo;her luck had turned.&rdquo; She snatched up her bonnet and mantilla,
      and made for North Shingles without an instant&rsquo;s hesitation. Mr. Bygrave
      out at sea; Miss Bygrave away for a walk; Mrs. Bygrave and the servant
      both at home, and both easily dealt with&mdash;the opportunity was not to
      be lost; the risk was well worth running!
    </p>
    <p>
      This time the house door was easily opened: no one had bolted it again
      after Magdalen&rsquo;s departure. Mrs. Lecount closed the door softly, listened
      for a moment in the passage, and heard the servant noisily occupied in the
      kitchen with her pots and pans. &ldquo;If my lucky star leads me straight into
      Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s room,&rdquo; thought the housekeeper, stealing noiselessly up the
      stairs, &ldquo;I may find my way to her wardrobe without disturbing anybody.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She tried the door nearest to the front of the house on the right-hand
      side of the landing. Capricious chance had deserted her already. The lock
      was turned. She tried the door opposite, on her left hand. The boots
      ranged symmetrically in a row, and the razors on the dressing-table, told
      her at once that she had not found the right room yet. She returned to the
      right-hand side of the landing, walked down a little passage leading to
      the back of the house, and tried a third door. The door opened, and the
      two opposite extremes of female humanity, Mrs. Wragge and Mrs. Lecount,
      stood face to face in an instant!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg ten thousand pardons!&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, with the most consummate
      self-possession.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lord bless us and save us!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, with the most helpless
      amazement.
    </p>
    <p>
      The two exclamations were uttered in a moment, and in that moment Mrs.
      Lecount took the measure of her victim. Nothing of the least importance
      escaped her. She noticed the Oriental Cashmere Robe lying half made, and
      half unpicked again, on the table; she noticed the imbecile foot of Mrs.
      Wragge searching blindly in the neighborhood of her chair for a lost shoe;
      she noticed that there was a second door in the room besides the door by
      which she had entered, and a second chair within easy reach, on which she
      might do well to seat herself in a friendly and confidential way. &ldquo;Pray
      don&rsquo;t resent my intrusion,&rdquo; pleaded Mrs. Lecount, taking the chair. &ldquo;Pray
      allow me to explain myself!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Speaking in her softest voice, surveying Mrs. Wragge with a sweet smile on
      her insinuating lips, and a melting interest in her handsome black eyes,
      the housekeeper told her little introductory series of falsehoods with an
      artless truthfulness of manner which the Father of Lies himself might have
      envied. She had heard from Mr. Bygrave that Mrs. Bygrave was a great
      invalid; she had constantly reproached herself, in her idle half-hours at
      Sea View (where she filled the situation of Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      housekeeper), for not having offered her friendly services to Mrs.
      Bygrave; she had been directed by her master (doubtless well known to Mrs.
      Bygrave, as one of her husband&rsquo;s friends, and, naturally, one of her
      charming niece&rsquo;s admirers), to join him that day at the residence to which
      he had removed from Aldborough; she was obliged to leave early, but she
      could not reconcile it to her conscience to go without calling to
      apologize for her apparent want of neighborly consideration; she had found
      nobody in the house; she had not been able to make the servant hear; she
      had presumed (not discovering that apartment downstairs) that Mrs.
      Bygrave&rsquo;s boudoir might be on the upper story; she had thoughtlessly
      committed an intrusion of which she was sincerely ashamed, and she could
      now only trust to Mrs. Bygrave&rsquo;s indulgence to excuse and forgive her.
    </p>
    <p>
      A less elaborate apology might have served Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s purpose. As soon
      as Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s struggling perceptions had grasped the fact that her
      unexpected visitor was a neighbor well known to her by repute, her whole
      being became absorbed in admiration of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s lady-like manners,
      and Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s perfectly-fitting gown! &ldquo;What a noble way she has of
      talking!&rdquo; thought poor Mrs. Wragge, as the housekeeper reached her closing
      sentence. &ldquo;And, oh my heart alive, how nicely she&rsquo;s dressed!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see I disturb you,&rdquo; pursued Mrs. Lecount, artfully availing herself of
      the Oriental Cashmere Robe as a means ready at hand of reaching the end
      she had in view&mdash;&ldquo;I see I disturb you, ma&rsquo;am, over an occupation
      which, I know by experience, requires the closest attention. Dear, dear
      me, you are un picking the dress again, I see, after it has been made!
      This is my own experience again, Mrs. Bygrave. Some dresses are so
      obstinate! Some dresses seem to say to one, in so many words, &lsquo;No! you may
      do what you like with me; I won&rsquo;t fit!&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge was greatly struck by this happy remark. She burst out
      laughing, and clapped her great hands in hearty approval.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what this gown has been saying to me ever since I first put the
      scissors into it,&rdquo; she exclaimed, cheerfully. &ldquo;I know I&rsquo;ve got an awful
      big back, but that&rsquo;s no reason. Why should a gown be weeks on hand, and
      then not meet behind you after all? It hangs over my Boasom like a sack&mdash;it
      does. Look here, ma&rsquo;am, at the skirt. It won&rsquo;t come right. It draggles in
      front, and cocks up behind. It shows my heels&mdash;and, Lord knows, I get
      into scrapes enough about my heels, without showing them into the
      bargain!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask a favor?&rdquo; inquired Mrs. Lecount, confidentially. &ldquo;May I try,
      Mrs. Bygrave, if I can make my experience of any use to you? I think our
      bosoms, ma&rsquo;am, are our great difficulty. Now, this bosom of yours?&mdash;Shall
      I say in plain words what I think? This bosom of yours is an Enormous
      Mistake!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t say that!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, imploringly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t please, there&rsquo;s a
      good soul! It&rsquo;s an awful big one, I know; but it&rsquo;s modeled, for all that,
      from one of Magdalen&rsquo;s own.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She was far too deeply interested on the subject of the dress to notice
      that she had forgotten herself already, and that she had referred to
      Magdalen by her own name. Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s sharp ears detected the mistake
      the instant it was committed. &ldquo;So! so!&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;One discovery
      already. If I had ever doubted my own suspicions, here is an estimable
      lady who would now have set me right.&mdash;I beg your pardon,&rdquo; she
      proceeded, aloud, &ldquo;did you say this was modeled from one of your niece&rsquo;s
      dresses?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s as like as two peas.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Then,&rdquo; replied Mrs. Lecount, adroitly, &ldquo;there must be some serious
      mistake in the making of your niece&rsquo;s dress. Can you show it to me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Bless your heart&mdash;yes!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Step this way, ma&rsquo;am;
      and bring the gown along with you, please. It keeps sliding off, out of
      pure aggravation, if you lay it out on the table. There&rsquo;s lots of room on
      the bed in here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She opened the door of communication and led the way eagerly into
      Magdalen&rsquo;s room. As Mrs. Lecount followed, she stole a look at her watch.
      Never before had time flown as it flew that morning! In twenty minutes
      more Mr. Bygrave would be back from his bath.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There!&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, throwing open the wardrobe, and taking a dress
      down from one of the pegs. &ldquo;Look there! There&rsquo;s plaits on her Boasom, and
      plaits on mine. Six of one and half a dozen of the other; and mine are the
      biggest&mdash;that&rsquo;s all!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount shook her head gravely, and entered forthwith into subtleties
      of disquisition on the art of dressmaking which had the desired effect of
      utterly bewildering the proprietor of the Oriental Cashmere Robe in less
      than three minutes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, imploringly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t go on like that! I&rsquo;m miles
      behind you; and my head&rsquo;s Buzzing already. Tell us, like a good soul,
      what&rsquo;s to be done. You said something about the pattern just now. Perhaps
      I&rsquo;m too big for the pattern? I can&rsquo;t help it if I am. Many&rsquo;s the good cry
      I had, when I was a growing girl, over my own size! There&rsquo;s half too much
      of me, ma&rsquo;am&mdash;measure me along or measure me across, I don&rsquo;t deny it&mdash;there&rsquo;s
      half too much of me, anyway.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear madam,&rdquo; protested Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;you do yourself a wrong! Permit
      me to assure you that you possess a commanding figure&mdash;a figure of
      Minerva. A majestic simplicity in the form of a woman imperatively demands
      a majestic simplicity in the form of that woman&rsquo;s dress. The laws of
      costume are classical; the laws of costume must not be trifled with!
      Plaits for Venus, puffs for Juno, folds for Minerva. I venture to suggest
      a total change of pattern. Your niece has other dresses in her collection.
      Why may we not find a Minerva pattern among them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As she said those words, she led the way back to the wardrobe.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge followed, and took the dresses out one by one, shaking her
      head despondently. Silk dresses appeared, muslin dresses appeared. The one
      dress which remained invisible was the dress of which Mrs. Lecount was in
      search.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There&rsquo;s the lot of &lsquo;em,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;They may do for Venus and the
      two other Ones (I&rsquo;ve seen &lsquo;em in picters without a morsel of decent linen
      among the three), but they won&rsquo;t do for Me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Surely there is another dress left?&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, pointing to the
      wardrobe, but touching nothing in it. &ldquo;Surely I see something hanging in
      the corner behind that dark shawl?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge removed the shawl; Mrs. Lecount opened the door of the
      wardrobe a little wider. There&mdash;hitched carelessly on the innermost
      peg&mdash;there, with its white spots, and its double flounce, was the
      brown Alpaca dress!
    </p>
    <p>
      The suddenness and completeness of the discovery threw the housekeeper,
      practiced dissembler as she was, completely off her guard. She started at
      the sight of the dress. The instant afterward her eyes turned uneasily
      toward Mrs. Wragge. Had the start been observed? It had passed entirely
      unnoticed. Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s whole attention was fixed on the Alpaca dress:
      she was staring at it incomprehensibly, with an expression of the utmost
      dismay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You seem alarmed, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;What is there in the
      wardrobe to frighten you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;d have given a crown piece out of my pocket,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, &ldquo;not to
      have set my eyes on that gown. It had gone clean out of my head, and now
      it&rsquo;s come back again. Cover it up!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge, throwing the shawl
      over the dress in a sudden fit of desperation. &ldquo;If I look at it much
      longer, I shall think I&rsquo;m back again in Vauxhall Walk!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Vauxhall Walk! Those two words told Mrs. Lecount she was on the brink of
      another discovery. She stole a second look at her watch. There was barely
      ten minutes to spare before the time when Mr. Bygrave might return; there
      was not one of those ten minutes which might not bring his niece back to
      the house. Caution counseled Mrs. Lecount to go, without running any more
      risks. Curiosity rooted her to the spot, and gave the courage to stay at
      all hazards until the time was up. Her amiable smile began to harden a
      little as she probed her way tenderly into Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s feeble mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have some unpleasant remembrances of Vauxhall Walk?&rdquo; she said, with
      the gentlest possible tone of inquiry in her voice. &ldquo;Or perhaps I should
      say, unpleasant remembrances of that dress belonging to your niece?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The last time I saw her with that gown on,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, dropping
      into a chair and beginning to tremble, &ldquo;was the time when I came back from
      shopping and saw the Ghost.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The Ghost?&rdquo; repeated Mrs. Lecount, clasping her hands in graceful
      astonishment. &ldquo;Dear madam, pardon me! Is there such a thing in the world?
      Where did you see it? In Vauxhall Walk? Tell me&mdash;you are the first
      lady I ever met with who has seen a ghost&mdash;pray tell me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Flattered by the position of importance which she had suddenly assumed in
      the housekeeper&rsquo;s eyes, Mrs. Wragge entered at full length into the
      narrative of her supernatural adventure. The breathless eagerness with
      which Mrs. Lecount listened to her description of the specter&rsquo;s costume,
      the specter&rsquo;s hurry on the stairs, and the specter&rsquo;s disappearance in the
      bedroom; the extraordinary interest which Mrs. Lecount displayed on
      hearing that the dress in the wardrobe was the very dress in which
      Magdalen happened to be attired at the awful moment when the ghost
      vanished, encouraged Mrs. Wragge to wade deeper and deeper into details,
      and to involve herself in a confusion of collateral circumstances out of
      which there seemed to be no prospect of her emerging for hours to come.
      Faster and faster the inexorable minutes flew by; nearer and nearer came
      the fatal moment of Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s return. Mrs. Lecount looked at her watch
      for the third time, without an attempt on this occasion to conceal the
      action from her companion&rsquo;s notice. There were literally two minutes left
      for her to get clear of North Shingles. Two minutes would be enough, if no
      accident happened. She had discovered the Alpaca dress; she had heard the
      whole story of the adventure in Vauxhall Walk; and, more than that, she
      had even informed herself of the number of the house&mdash;which Mrs.
      Wragge happened to remember, because it answered to the number of years in
      her own age. All that was necessary to her master&rsquo;s complete enlightenment
      she had now accomplished. Even if there had been time to stay longer,
      there was nothing worth staying for. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll strike this worthy idiot dumb
      with a <i>coup d&rsquo;etat</i>,&rdquo; thought the housekeeper, &ldquo;and vanish before
      she recovers herself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Horrible!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Lecount, interrupting the ghostly narrative by a
      shrill little scream and making for the door, to Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s unutterable
      astonishment, without the least ceremony. &ldquo;You freeze the very marrow of
      my bones. Good-morning!&rdquo; She coolly tossed the Oriental Cashmere Robe into
      Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s expansive lap and left the room in an instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      As she swiftly descended the stairs, she heard the door of the bedroom
      open.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where are your manners?&rdquo; cried a voice from above, hailing her feebly
      over the banisters. &ldquo;What do you mean by pitching my gown at me in that
      way? You ought to be ashamed of yourself!&rdquo; pursued Mrs. Wragge, turning
      from a lamb to a lioness, as she gradually realized the indignity offered
      to the Cashmere Robe. &ldquo;You nasty foreigner, you ought to be ashamed of
      yourself!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Pursued by this valedictory address, Mrs. Lecount reached the house door,
      and opened it without interruption. She glided rapidly along the garden
      path, passed through the gate, and finding herself safe on the Parade,
      stopped, and looked toward the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first object which her eyes encountered was the figure of Mr. Bygrave
      standing motionless on the beach&mdash;a petrified bather, with his towels
      in his hand! One glance at him was enough to show that he had seen the
      housekeeper passing out through his garden gate.
    </p>
    <p>
      Rightly conjecturing that Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s first impulse would lead him to
      make instant inquiries in his own house, Mrs. Lecount pursued her way back
      to Sea View as composedly as if nothing had happened. When she entered the
      parlor where her solitary breakfast was waiting for her, she was surprised
      to see a letter lying on the table. She approached to take it up with an
      expression of impatience, thinking it might be some tradesman&rsquo;s bill which
      she had forgotten.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was the forged letter from Zurich.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XI.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE postmark and the handwriting on the address (admirably imitated from
      the original) warned Mrs. Lecount of the contents of the letter before she
      opened it.
    </p>
    <p>
      After waiting a moment to compose herself, she read the announcement of
      her brother&rsquo;s relapse.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was nothing in the handwriting, there was no expression in any part
      of the letter which could suggest to her mind the faintest suspicion of
      foul play. Not the shadow of a doubt occurred to her that the summons to
      her brother&rsquo;s bedside was genuine. The hand that held the letter dropped
      heavily into her lap; she became pale, and old, and haggard in a moment.
      Thoughts, far removed from her present aims and interests; remembrances
      that carried her back to other lands than England, to other times than the
      time of her life in service, prolonged their inner shadows to the surface,
      and showed the traces of their mysterious passage darkly on her face. The
      minutes followed each other, and still the servant below stairs waited
      vainly for the parlor bell. The minutes followed each other, and still she
      sat, tearless and quiet, dead to the present and the future, living in the
      past.
    </p>
    <p>
      The entrance of the servant, uncalled, roused her. With a heavy sigh, the
      cold and secret woman folded the letter up again and addressed herself to
      the interests and the duties of the passing time.
    </p>
    <p>
      She decided the question of going or not going to Zurich, after a very
      brief consideration of it. Before she had drawn her chair to the
      breakfast-table she had resolved to go.
    </p>
    <p>
      Admirably as Captain Wragge&rsquo;s stratagem had worked, it might have failed&mdash;unassisted
      by the occurrence of the morning&mdash;to achieve this result. The very
      accident against which it had been the captain&rsquo;s chief anxiety to guard&mdash;the
      accident which had just taken place in spite of him&mdash;was, of all the
      events that could have happened, the one event which falsified every
      previous calculation, by directly forwarding the main purpose of the
      conspiracy! If Mrs. Lecount had not obtained the information of which she
      was in search before the receipt of the letter from Zurich, the letter
      might have addressed her in vain. She would have hesitated before deciding
      to leave England, and that hesitation might have proved fatal to the
      captain&rsquo;s scheme.
    </p>
    <p>
      As it was, with the plain proofs in her possession, with the gown
      discovered in Magdalen&rsquo;s wardrobe, with the piece cut out of it in her own
      pocketbook, and with the knowledge, obtained from Mrs. Wragge, of the very
      house in which the disguise had been put on, Mrs. Lecount had now at her
      command the means of warning Noel Vanstone as she had never been able to
      warn him yet, or, in other words, the means of guarding against any
      dangerous tendencies toward reconciliation with the Bygraves which might
      otherwise have entered his mind during her absence at Zurich. The only
      difficulty which now perplexed her was the difficulty of deciding whether
      she should communicate with her master personally or by writing, before
      her departure from England.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked again at the doctor&rsquo;s letter. The word &ldquo;instantly,&rdquo; in the
      sentence which summoned her to her dying brother, was twice underlined.
      Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s house was at some distance from the railway; the time
      consumed in driving to St. Crux, and driving back again, might be time
      fatally lost on the journey to Zurich. Although she would infinitely have
      preferred a personal interview with Noel Vanstone, there was no choice on
      a matter of life and death but to save the precious hours by writing to
      him.
    </p>
    <p>
      After sending to secure a place at once in the early coach, she sat down
      to write to her master.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her first thought was to tell him all that had happened at North Shingles
      that morning. On reflection, however, she rejected the idea. Once already
      (in copying the personal description from Miss Garth&rsquo;s letter) she had
      trusted her weapons in her master&rsquo;s hands, and Mr. Bygrave had contrived
      to turn them against her. She resolved this time to keep them strictly in
      her own possession. The secret of the missing fragment of the Alpaca dress
      was known to no living creature but herself; and, until her return to
      England, she determined to keep it to herself. The necessary impression
      might be produced on Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s mind without venturing into details.
      She knew by experience the form of letter which might be trusted to
      produce an effect on him, and she now wrote it in these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MR. NOEL&mdash;Sad news has reached me from Switzerland. My beloved
      brother is dying and his medical attendant summons me instantly to Zurich.
      The serious necessity of availing myself of the earliest means of
      conveyance to the Continent leaves me but one alternative. I must profit
      by the permission to leave England, if necessary, which you kindly granted
      to me at the beginning of my brother&rsquo;s illness, and I must avoid all delay
      by going straight to London, instead of turning aside, as I should have
      liked, to see you first at St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Painfully as I am affected by the family calamity which has fallen on me,
      I cannot let this opportunity pass without adverting to another subject
      which seriously concerns your welfare, and in which (on that account) your
      old housekeeper feels the deepest interest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am going to surprise and shock you, Mr. Noel. Pray don&rsquo;t be agitated!
      pray compose yourself!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The impudent attempt to cheat you, which has happily opened your eyes to
      the true character of our neighbors at North Shingles, was not the only
      object which Mr. Bygrave had in forcing himself on your acquaintance. The
      infamous conspiracy with which you were threatened in London has been in
      full progress against you under Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s direction, at Aldborough.
      Accident&mdash;I will tell you what accident when we meet&mdash;has put me
      in possession of information precious to your future security. I have
      discovered, to an absolute certainty, that the person calling herself Miss
      Bygrave is no other than the woman who visited us in disguise at Vauxhall
      Walk.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suspected this from the first, but I had no evidence to support my
      suspicions; I had no means of combating the false impression produced on
      you. My hands, I thank Heaven, are tied no longer. I possess absolute
      proof of the assertion that I have just made&mdash;proof that your own
      eyes can see&mdash;proof that would satisfy you, if you were judge in a
      Court of Justice.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps even yet, Mr. Noel, you will refuse to believe me? Be it so.
      Believe me or not, I have one last favor to ask, which your English sense
      of fair play will not deny me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This melancholy journey of mine will keep me away from England for a
      fortnight, or, at most, for three weeks. You will oblige me&mdash;and you
      will certainly not sacrifice your own convenience and pleasure&mdash;by
      staying through that interval with your friends at St. Crux. If, before my
      return, some unexpected circumstance throws you once more into the company
      of the Bygraves, and if your natural kindness of heart inclines you to
      receive the excuses which they will, in that case, certainly address to
      you, place one trifling restraint on yourself, for your own sake, if not
      for mine. Suspend your flirtation with the young lady (I beg pardon of all
      other young ladies for calling her so!) until my return. If, when I come
      back, I fail to prove to you that Miss Bygrave is the woman who wore that
      disguise, and used those threatening words, in Vauxhall Wall, I will
      engage to leave your service at a day&rsquo;s notice; and I will atone for the
      sin of bearing false witness against my neighbor by resigning every claim
      I have to your grateful remembrance, on your father&rsquo;s account as well as
      on your own. I make this engagement without reserves of any kind; and I
      promise to abide by it&mdash;if my proofs fail&mdash;on the faith of a
      good Catholic, and the word of an honest woman. Your faithful servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VIRGINIE LECOUNT.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The closing sentences of this letter&mdash;as the housekeeper well knew
      when she wrote them&mdash;embodied the one appeal to Noel Vanstone which
      could be certainly trusted to produce a deep and lasting effect. She might
      have staked her oath, her life, or her reputation, on proving the
      assertion which she had made, and have failed to leave a permanent
      impression on his mind. But when she staked not only her position in his
      service, but her pecuniary claims on him as well, she at once absorbed the
      ruling passion of his life in expectation of the result. There was not a
      doubt of it, in the strongest of all his interests&mdash;the interest of
      saving his money&mdash;he would wait.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Checkmate for Mr. Bygrave!&rdquo; thought Mrs. Lecount, as she sealed and
      directed the letter. &ldquo;The battle is over&mdash;the game is played out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While Mrs. Lecount was providing for her master&rsquo;s future security at Sea
      View, events were in full progress at North Shingles.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as Captain Wragge recovered his astonishment at the housekeeper&rsquo;s
      appearance on his own premises, he hurried into the house, and, guided by
      his own forebodings of the disaster that had happened, made straight for
      his wife&rsquo;s room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Never, in all her former experience, had poor Mrs. Wragge felt the full
      weight of the captain&rsquo;s indignation as she felt it now. All the little
      intelligence she naturally possessed vanished at once in the whirlwind of
      her husband&rsquo;s rage. The only plain facts which he could extract from her
      were two in number. In the first place, Magdalen&rsquo;s rash desertion of her
      post proved to have no better reason to excuse it than Magdalen&rsquo;s
      incorrigible impatience: she had passed a sleepless night; she had risen
      feverish and wretched; and she had gone out, reckless of all consequences,
      to cool her burning head in the fresh air. In the second place, Mrs.
      Wragge had, on her own confession, seen Mrs. Lecount, had talked with Mrs.
      Lecount, and had ended by telling Mrs. Lecount the story of the ghost.
      Having made these discoveries, Captain Wragge wasted no time in contending
      with his wife&rsquo;s terror and confusion. He withdrew at once to a window
      which commanded an uninterrupted prospect of Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s house, and
      there established himself on the watch for events at Sea View, precisely
      as Mrs. Lecount had established herself on the watch for events at North
      Shingles.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not a word of comment on the disaster of the morning escaped him when
      Magdalen returned and found him at his post. His flow of language seemed
      at last to have run dry. &ldquo;I told you what Mrs. Wragge would do,&rdquo; he said,
      &ldquo;and Mrs. Wragge has done it.&rdquo; He sat unflinchingly at the window with a
      patience which Mrs. Lecount herself could not have surpassed. The one
      active proceeding in which he seemed to think it necessary to engage was
      performed by deputy. He sent the servant to the inn to hire a chaise and a
      fast horse, and to say that he would call himself before noon that day and
      tell the hostler when the vehicle would be wanted. Not a sign of
      impatience escaped him until the time drew near for the departure of the
      early coach. Then the captain&rsquo;s curly lips began to twitch with anxiety,
      and the captain&rsquo;s restless fingers beat the devil&rsquo;s tattoo unremittingly
      on the window-pane.
    </p>
    <p>
      The coach appeared at last, and drew up at Sea View. In a minute more,
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s own observation informed him that one among the
      passengers who left Aldborough that morning was&mdash;Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The main uncertainty disposed of, a serious question&mdash;suggested by
      the events of the morning&mdash;still remained to be solved. Which was the
      destined end of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s journey&mdash;Zurich or St. Crux? That she
      would certainly inform her master of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s ghost story, and of
      every other disclosure in relation to names and places which might have
      escaped Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s lips, was beyond all doubt. But of the two ways at
      her disposal of doing the mischief&mdash;either personally or by letter&mdash;it
      was vitally important to the captain to know which she had chosen. If she
      had gone to the admiral&rsquo;s, no choice would be left him but to follow the
      coach, to catch the train by which she traveled, and to outstrip her
      afterward on the drive from the station in Essex to St. Crux. If, on the
      contrary, she had been contented with writing to her master, it would only
      be necessary to devise measures for intercepting the letter. The captain
      decided on going to the post-office, in the first place. Assuming that the
      housekeeper had written, she would not have left the letter at the mercy
      of the servant&mdash;she would have seen it safely in the letter-box
      before leaving Aldborough.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning,&rdquo; said the captain, cheerfully addressing the postmaster. &ldquo;I
      am Mr. Bygrave of North Shingles. I think you have a letter in the box,
      addressed to Mr.&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The postmaster was a short man, and consequently a man with a proper idea
      of his own importance. He solemnly checked Captain Wragge in full career.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When a letter is once posted, sir,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;nobody out of the office
      has any business with it until it reaches its address.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain was not a man to be daunted, even by a postmaster. A bright
      idea struck him. He took out his pocketbook, in which Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s
      address was written, and returned to the charge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose a letter has been wrongly directed by mistake?&rdquo; he began. &ldquo;And
      suppose the writer wants to correct the error after the letter is put into
      the box?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When a letter is once posted, sir,&rdquo; reiterated the impenetrable local
      authority, &ldquo;nobody out of the office touches it on any pretense whatever.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Granted, with all my heart,&rdquo; persisted the captain. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to
      touch it&mdash;I only want to explain myself. A lady has posted a letter
      here, addressed to &lsquo;Noel Vanstone, Esq., Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s, St.
      Crux-in-the-Marsh, Essex.&rsquo; She wrote in a great hurry, and she is not
      quite certain whether she added the name of the post-town, &lsquo;Ossory.&rsquo; It is
      of the last importance that the delivery of the letter should not be
      delayed. What is to hinder your facilitating the post-office work, and
      obliging a lady, by adding the name of the post-town (if it happens to be
      left out), with your own hand? I put it to you as a zealous officer, what
      possible objection can there be to granting my request?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The postmaster was compelled to acknowledge that there could be no
      objection, provided nothing but a necessary line was added to the address,
      provided nobody touched the letter but himself, and provided the precious
      time of the post-office was not suffered to run to waste. As there
      happened to be nothing particular to do at that moment, he would readily
      oblige the lady at Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s request.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge watched the postmaster&rsquo;s hands, as they sorted the letters
      in the box, with breathless eagerness. Was the letter there? Would the
      hands of the zealous public servant suddenly stop? Yes! They stopped, and
      picked out a letter from the rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Noel Vanstone, Esquire,&rsquo; did you say?&rdquo; asked the postmaster, keeping the
      letter in his own hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Noel Vanstone, Esquire,&rsquo;&rdquo; replied the captain, &ldquo;&lsquo;Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s, St.
      Crux-in-the-Marsh.&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ossory, Essex,&rdquo; chimed in the postmaster, throwing the letter back into
      the box. &ldquo;The lady has made no mistake, sir. The address is quite right.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Nothing but a timely consideration of the heavy debt he owed to
      appearances prevented Captain Wragge from throwing his tall white hat up
      in the air as soon as he found the street once more. All further doubt was
      now at an end. Mrs. Lecount had written to her master&mdash;therefore Mrs.
      Lecount was on her way to Zurich!
    </p>
    <p>
      With his head higher than ever, with the tails of his respectable
      frock-coat floating behind him in the breeze, with his bosom&rsquo;s native
      impudence sitting lightly on its throne, the captain strutted to the inn
      and called for the railway time-table. After making certain calculations
      (in black and white, as a matter of course), he ordered his chaise to be
      ready in an hour&mdash;so as to reach the railway in time for the second
      train running to London&mdash;with which there happened to be no
      communication from Aldborough by coach.
    </p>
    <p>
      His next proceeding was of a far more serious kind; his next proceeding
      implied a terrible certainty of success. The day of the week was Thursday.
      From the inn he went to the church, saw the clerk, and gave the necessary
      notice for a marriage by license on the following Monday.
    </p>
    <p>
      Bold as he was, his nerves were a little shaken by this last achievement;
      his hand trembled as it lifted the latch of the garden gate. He doctored
      his nerves with brandy and water before he sent for Magdalen to inform her
      of the proceedings of the morning. Another outbreak might reasonably be
      expected when she heard that the last irrevocable step had been taken, and
      that notice had been given of the wedding-day.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s watch warned him to lose no time in emptying his glass. In a
      few minutes he sent the necessary message upstairs. While waiting for
      Magdalen&rsquo;s appearance, he provided himself with certain materials which
      were now necessary to carry the enterprise to its crowning point. In the
      first place, he wrote his assumed name (by no means in so fine a hand as
      usual) on a blank visiting-card, and added underneath these words: &ldquo;Not a
      moment is to be lost. I am waiting for you at the door&mdash;come down to
      me directly.&rdquo; His next proceeding was to take some half-dozen envelopes
      out of the case, and to direct them all alike to the following address:
      &ldquo;Thomas Bygrave, Esq., Mussared&rsquo;s Hotel, Salisbury Street, Strand,
      London.&rdquo; After carefully placing the envelopes and the card in his
      breast-pocket, he shut up the desk. As he rose from the writing-table,
      Magdalen came into the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain took a moment to decide on the best method of opening the
      interview, and determined, in his own phrase, to dash at it. In two words
      he told Magdalen what had happened, and informed her that Monday was to be
      her wedding-day.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was prepared to quiet her, if she burst into a frenzy of passion; to
      reason with her, if she begged for time; to sympathize with her, if she
      melted into tears. To his inexpressible surprise, results falsified all
      his calculations. She heard him without uttering a word, without shedding
      a tear. When he had done, she dropped into a chair. Her large gray eyes
      stared at him vacantly. In one mysterious instant all her beauty left her;
      her face stiffened awfully, like the face of a corpse. For the first time
      in the captain&rsquo;s experience of her, fear&mdash;all-mastering fear&mdash;had
      taken possession of her, body and soul.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are not flinching,&rdquo; he said, trying to rouse her. &ldquo;Surely you are not
      flinching at the last moment?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      No light of intelligence came into her eyes, no change passed over her
      face. But she heard him&mdash;for she moved a little in the chair, and
      slowly shook her head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You planned this marriage of your own freewill,&rdquo; pursued the captain,
      with the furtive look and the faltering voice of a man ill at ease. &ldquo;It
      was your own idea&mdash;not mine. I won&rsquo;t have the responsibility laid on
      my shoulders&mdash;no! not for twice two hundred pounds. If your
      resolution fails you; if you think better of it&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stopped. Her face was changing; her lips were moving at last. She
      slowly raised her left hand, with the fingers outspread; she looked at it
      as if it was a hand that was strange to her; she counted the days on it,
      the days before the marriage.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Friday, one,&rdquo; she whispered to herself; &ldquo;Saturday, two; Sunday, three;
      Monday&mdash;&rdquo; Her hands dropped into her lap, her face stiffened again;
      the deadly fear fastened its paralyzing hold on her once more, and the
      next words died away on her lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damn the two hundred pounds!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Two thousand wouldn&rsquo;t pay me for
      this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He put the handkerchief back, took the envelopes which he had addressed to
      himself out of his pocket, and, approaching her closely for the first
      time, laid his hand on her arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Rouse yourself,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;I have a last word to say to you. Can you
      listen?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She struggled, and roused herself&mdash;a faint tinge of color stole over
      her white cheeks&mdash;she bowed her head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look at these,&rdquo; pursued Captain Wragge, holding up the envelopes. &ldquo;If I
      turn these to the use for which they have been written, Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      master will never receive Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s letter. If I tear them up, he
      will know by to-morrow&rsquo;s post that you are the woman who visited him in
      Vauxhall Walk. Say the word! Shall I tear the envelopes up, or shall I put
      them back in my pocket?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause of dead silence. The murmur of the summer waves on the
      shingle of the beach and the voices of the summer idlers on the Parade
      floated through the open window, and filled the empty stillness of the
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She raised her head; she lifted her hand and pointed steadily to the
      envelopes.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Put them back,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you mean it?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As she gave that answer, there was a sound of wheels on the road outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You hear those wheels?&rdquo; said Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hear them.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You see the chaise?&rdquo; said the captain, pointing through the window as the
      chaise which had been ordered from the inn made its appearance at the
      garden gate.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And, of your own free-will, you tell me to go?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. Go!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Without another word he left her. The servant was waiting at the door with
      his traveling bag. &ldquo;Miss Bygrave is not well,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Tell your
      mistress to go to her in the parlor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stepped into the chaise, and started on the first stage of the journey
      to St. Crux.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      TOWARD three o&rsquo;clock in the afternoon Captain Wragge stopped at the
      nearest station to Ossory which the railway passed in its course through
      Essex. Inquiries made on the spot informed him that he might drive to St.
      Crux, remain there for a quarter of an hour, and return to the station in
      time for an evening train to London. In ten minutes more the captain was
      on the road again, driving rapidly in the direction of the coast.
    </p>
    <p>
      After proceeding some miles on the highway, the carriage turned off, and
      the coachman involved himself in an intricate network of cross-roads.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are we far from St. Crux?&rdquo; asked the captain, growing impatient, after
      mile on mile had been passed without a sign of reaching the journey&rsquo;s end.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;ll see the house, sir, at the next turn in the road,&rdquo; said the man.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next turn in the road brought them within view of the open country
      again. Ahead of the carriage, Captain Wragge saw a long dark line against
      the sky&mdash;the line of the sea-wall which protects the low coast of
      Essex from inundation. The flat intermediate country was intersected by a
      labyrinth of tidal streams, winding up from the invisible sea in strange
      fantastic curves&mdash;rivers at high water, and channels of mud at low.
      On his right hand was a quaint little village, mostly composed of wooden
      houses, straggling down to the brink of one of the tidal streams. On his
      left hand, further away, rose the gloomy ruins of an abbey, with a
      desolate pile of buildings, which covered two sides of a square attached
      to it. One of the streams from the sea (called, in Essex, &ldquo;backwaters&rdquo;)
      curled almost entirely round the house. Another, from an opposite quarter,
      appeared to run straight through the grounds, and to separate one side of
      the shapeless mass of buildings, which was in moderate repair, from
      another, which was little better than a ruin. Bridges of wood and bridges
      of brick crossed the stream, and gave access to the house from all points
      of the compass. No human creature appeared in the neighborhood, and no
      sound was heard but the hoarse barking of a house-dog from an invisible
      courtyard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Which door shall I drive to, sir?&rdquo; asked the coachman. &ldquo;The front or the
      back?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The back,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, feeling that the less notice he attracted
      in his present position, the safer that position might be.
    </p>
    <p>
      The carriage twice crossed the stream before the coachman made his way
      through the grounds into a dreary inclosure of stone. At an open door on
      the inhabited side of the place sat a weather-beaten old man, busily at
      work on a half-finished model of a ship. He rose and came to the carriage
      door, lifting up his spectacles on his forehead, and looking disconcerted
      at the appearance of a stranger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Mr. Noel Vanstone staying here?&rdquo; asked Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir,&rdquo; replied the old man. &ldquo;Mr. Noel came yesterday.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take that card to Mr. Vanstone, if you please,&rdquo; said the captain, &ldquo;and
      say I am waiting here to see him.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In a few minutes Noel Vanstone made his appearance, breathless and eager&mdash;absorbed
      in anxiety for news from Aldborough. Captain Wragge opened the carriage
      door, seized his outstretched hand, and pulled him in without ceremony.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your housekeeper has gone,&rdquo; whispered the captain, &ldquo;and you are to be
      married on Monday. Don&rsquo;t agitate yourself, and don&rsquo;t express your feelings&mdash;there
      isn&rsquo;t time for it. Get the first active servant you can find in the house
      to pack your bag in ten minutes, take leave of the admiral, and come back
      at once with me to the London train.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone faintly attempted to ask a question. The captain declined to
      hear it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As much talk as you like on the road,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Time is too precious for
      talking here. How do we know Lecount may not think better of it? How do we
      know she may not turn back before she gets to Zurich?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That startling consideration terrified Noel Vanstone into instant
      submission.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What shall I say to the admiral?&rdquo; he asked, helplessly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell him you are going to be married, to be sure! What does it matter,
      now Lecount&rsquo;s back is turned? If he wonders you didn&rsquo;t tell him before,
      say it&rsquo;s a runaway match, and the bride is waiting for you. Stop! Any
      letters addressed to you in your absence will be sent to this place, of
      course? Give the admiral these envelopes, and tell him to forward your
      letters under cover to me. I am an old customer at the hotel we are going
      to; and if we find the place full, the landlord may be depended on to take
      care of any letters with my name on them. A safe address in London for
      your correspondence may be of the greatest importance. How do we know
      Lecount may not write to you on her way to Zurich?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What a head you have got!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, eagerly taking the
      envelopes. &ldquo;You think of everything.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He left the carriage in high excitement, and ran back into the house. In
      ten minutes more Captain Wragge had him in safe custody, and the horses
      started on their return journey.
    </p>
    <p>
      The travelers reached London in good time that evening, and found
      accommodation at the hotel.
    </p>
    <p>
      Knowing the restless, inquisitive nature of the man he had to deal with,
      Captain Wragge had anticipated some little difficulty and embarrassment in
      meeting the questions which Noel Vanstone might put to him on the way to
      London. To his great relief, a startling domestic discovery absorbed his
      traveling companion&rsquo;s whole attention at the outset of the journey. By
      some extraordinary oversight, Miss Bygrave had been left, on the eve of
      her marriage, unprovided with a maid. Noel Vanstone declared that he would
      take the whole responsibility of correcting this deficiency in the
      arrangements, on his own shoulders; he would not trouble Mr. Bygrave to
      give him any assistance; he would confer, when they got to their journey&rsquo;s
      end, with the landlady of the hotel, and would examine the candidates for
      the vacant office himself. All the way to London, he returned again and
      again to the same subject; all the evening, at the hotel, he was in and
      out of the landlady&rsquo;s sitting-room, until he fairly obliged her to lock
      the door. In every other proceeding which related to his marriage, he had
      been kept in the background; he had been compelled to follow in the
      footsteps of his ingenious friend. In the matter of the lady&rsquo;s maid he
      claimed his fitting position at last&mdash;he followed nobody; he took the
      lead!
    </p>
    <p>
      The forenoon of the next day was devoted to obtaining the license&mdash;the
      personal distinction of making the declaration on oath being eagerly
      accepted by Noel Vanstone, who swore, in perfect good faith (on
      information previously obtained from the captain) that the lady was of
      age. The document procured, the bridegroom returned to examine the
      characters and qualifications of the women-servants out of the place whom
      the landlady had engaged to summon to the hotel, while Captain Wragge
      turned his steps, &ldquo;on business personal to himself,&rdquo; toward the residence
      of a friend in a distant quarter of London.
    </p>
    <p>
      The captain&rsquo;s friend was connected with the law, and the captain&rsquo;s
      business was of a twofold nature. His first object was to inform himself
      of the legal bearings of the approaching marriage on the future of the
      husband and the wife. His second object was to provide beforehand for
      destroying all traces of the destination to which he might betake himself
      when he left Aldborough on the wedding-day. Having reached his end
      successfully in both these cases, he returned to the hotel, and found Noel
      Vanstone nursing his offended dignity in the landlady&rsquo;s sitting-room.
      Three ladies&rsquo; maids had appeared to pass their examination, and had all,
      on coming to the question of wages, impudently declined accepting the
      place. A fourth candidate was expected to present herself on the next day;
      and, until she made her appearance, Noel Vanstone positively declined
      removing from the metropolis. Captain Wragge showed his annoyance openly
      at the unnecessary delay thus occasioned in the return to Aldborough, but
      without producing any effect. Noel Vanstone shook his obstinate little
      head, and solemnly refused to trifle with his responsibilities.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first event which occurred on Saturday morning was the arrival of Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s letter to her master, inclosed in one of the envelopes which the
      captain had addressed to himself. He received it (by previous arrangement
      with the waiter) in his bedroom&mdash;read it with the closest attention&mdash;and
      put it away carefully in his pocketbook. The letter was ominous of serious
      events to come when the housekeeper returned to England; and it was due to
      Magdalen&mdash;who was the person threatened&mdash;to place the warning of
      danger in her own possession.
    </p>
    <p>
      Later in the day the fourth candidate appeared for the maid&rsquo;s situation&mdash;a
      young woman of small expectations and subdued manners, who looked (as the
      landlady remarked) like a person overtaken by misfortune. She passed the
      ordeal of examination successfully, and accepted the wages offered with
      out a murmur. The engagement having been ratified on both sides, fresh
      delays ensued, of which Noel Vanstone was once more the cause. He had not
      yet made up his mind whether he would, or would not, give more than a
      guinea for the wedding-ring; and he wasted the rest of the day to such
      disastrous purpose in one jeweler&rsquo;s shop after another, that he and the
      captain, and the new lady&rsquo;s maid (who traveled with them), were barely in
      time to catch the last train from London that evening. It was late at
      night when they left the railway at the nearest station to Aldborough.
      Captain Wragge had been strangely silent all through the journey. His mind
      was ill at ease. He had left Magdalen, under very critical circumstances,
      with no fit person to control her, and he was wholly ignorant of the
      progress of events in his absence at North Shingles.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XIII.
    </h3>
    <p>
      WHAT had happened at Aldborough in Captain Wragge&rsquo;s absence? Events had
      occurred which the captain&rsquo;s utmost dexterity might have found it hard to
      remedy.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as the chaise had left North Shingles, Mrs. Wragge received the
      message which her husband had charged the servant to deliver. She hastened
      into the parlor, bewildered by her stormy interview with the captain, and
      penitently conscious that she had done wrong, without knowing what the
      wrong was. If Magdalen&rsquo;s mind had been unoccupied by the one idea of the
      marriage which now filled it&mdash;if she had possessed composure enough
      to listen to Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s rambling narrative of what had happened during
      her interview with the housekeeper&mdash;Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s visit to the
      wardrobe must, sooner or later, have formed part of the disclosure; and
      Magdalen, although she might never have guessed the truth, must at least
      have been warned that there was some element of danger lurking
      treacherously in the Alpaca dress. As it was, no such consequence as this
      followed Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s appearance in the parlor; for no such consequence
      was now possible.
    </p>
    <p>
      Events which had happened earlier in the morning, events which had
      happened for days and weeks past, had vanished as completely from
      Magdalen&rsquo;s mind as if they had never taken place. The horror of the coming
      Monday&mdash;the merciless certainty implied in the appointment of the day
      and hour&mdash;petrified all feeling in her, and annihilated all thought.
      Mrs. Wragge made three separate attempts to enter on the subject of the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s visit. The first time she might as well have addressed
      herself to the wind, or to the sea. The second attempt seemed likely to be
      more successful. Magdalen sighed, listened for a moment indifferently, and
      then dismissed the subject. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t matter,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;The end has
      come all the same. I&rsquo;m not angry with you. Say no more.&rdquo; Later in the day,
      from not knowing what else to talk about, Mrs. Wragge tried again. This
      time Magdalen turned on her impatiently. &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake, don&rsquo;t worry me
      about trifles! I can&rsquo;t bear it.&rdquo; Mrs. Wragge closed her lips on the spot,
      and returned to the subject no more. Magdalen, who had been kind to her at
      all other times, had angrily forbidden it. The captain&mdash;utterly
      ignorant of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s interest in the secrets of the wardrobe&mdash;had
      never so much as approached it. All the information that he had extracted
      from his wife&rsquo;s mental confusion, he had extracted by putting direct
      questions, derived purely from the resources of his own knowledge. He had
      insisted on plain answers, without excuses of any kind; he had carried his
      point as usual; and his departure the same morning had left him no chance
      of re-opening the question, even if his irritation against his wife had
      permitted him to do so. There the Alpaca dress hung, neglected in the dark&mdash;the
      unnoticed, unsuspected center of dangers that were still to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      Toward the afternoon Mrs. Wragge took courage to start a suggestion of her
      own&mdash;she pleaded for a little turn in the fresh air.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen passively put on her hat; passively accompanied her companion
      along the public walk, until they reached its northward extremity. Here
      the beach was left solitary, and here they sat down, side by side, on the
      shingle. It was a bright, exhilarating day; pleasure-boats were sailing on
      the calm blue water; Aldborough was idling happily afloat and ashore. Mrs.
      Wragge recovered her spirits in the gayety of the prospect&mdash;she
      amused herself like a child, by tossing pebbles into the sea. From time to
      time she stole a questioning glance at Magdalen, and saw no encouragement
      in her manner, no change to cordiality in her face. She sat silent on the
      slope of the shingle, with her elbow on her knee, and her head resting on
      her hand, looking out over the sea&mdash;looking with rapt attention, and
      yet with eyes that seemed to notice nothing. Mrs. Wragge wearied of the
      pebbles, and lost her interest in looking at the pleasure-boats. Her great
      head began to nod heavily, and she dozed in the warm, drowsy air. When she
      woke, the pleasure-boats were far off; their sails were white specks in
      the distance. The idlers on the beach were thinned in number; the sun was
      low in the heaven; the blue sea was darker, and rippled by a breeze.
      Changes on sky and earth and ocean told of the waning day; change was
      everywhere&mdash;except close at her side. There Magdalen sat, in the same
      position, with weary eyes that still looked over the sea, and still saw
      nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, do speak to me!&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen started, and looked about her vacantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s late,&rdquo; she said, shivering under the first sensation that reached
      her of the rising breeze. &ldquo;Come home; you want your tea.&rdquo; They walked home
      in silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be angry with me for asking,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, as they sat
      together at the tea-table. &ldquo;Are you troubled, my dear, in your mind?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t notice me. My trouble will soon be over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She waited patiently until Mrs. Wragge had made an end of the meal, and
      then went upstairs to her own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Monday!&rdquo; she said, as she sat down at her toilet-table. &ldquo;Something may
      happen before Monday comes!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her fingers wandered mechanically among the brushes and combs, the tiny
      bottles and cases placed on the table. She set them in order, now in one
      way, and now in another&mdash;then on a sudden pushed them away from her
      in a heap. For a minute or two her hands remained idle. That interval
      passed, they grew restless again, and pulled the two little drawers
      backward and forward in their grooves. Among the objects laid in one of
      them was a Prayer-book which had belonged to her at Combe-Raven, and which
      she had saved with her other relics of the past, when she and her sister
      had taken their farewell of home. She opened the Prayer-book, after a long
      hesitation, at the Marriage Service, shut it again before she had read a
      line, and put it back hurriedly in one of the drawers. After turning the
      key in the locks, she rose and walked to the window. &ldquo;The horrible sea!&rdquo;
       she said, turning from it with a shudder of disgust&mdash;&ldquo;the lonely,
      dreary, horrible sea!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went back to the drawer, and took the Prayer-book out for the second
      time, half opened it again at the Marriage Service, and impatiently threw
      it back into the drawer. This time, after turning the lock, she took the
      key away, walked with it in her hand to the open window, and threw it
      violently from her into the garden. It fell on a bed thickly planted with
      flowers. It was invisible; it was lost. The sense of its loss seemed to
      relieve her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Something may happen on Friday; something may happen on Saturday;
      something may happen on Sunday. Three days still!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She closed the green shutters outside the window and drew the curtains to
      darken the room still more. Her head felt heavy; her eyes were burning
      hot. She threw herself on her bed, with a sullen impulse to sleep away the
      time. The quiet of the house helped her; the darkness of the room helped
      her; the stupor of mind into which she had fallen had its effect on her
      senses; she dropped into a broken sleep. Her restless hands moved
      incessantly, her head tossed from side to side of the pillow, but still
      she slept. Ere long words fell by ones and twos from her lips; words
      whispered in her sleep, growing more and more continuous, more and more
      articulate, the longer the sleep lasted&mdash;words which seemed to calm
      her restlessness and to hush her into deeper repose. She smiled; she was
      in the happy land of dreams; Frank&rsquo;s name escaped her. &ldquo;Do you love me,
      Frank?&rdquo; she whispered. &ldquo;Oh, my darling, say it again! say it again!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The time passed, the room grew darker; and still she slumbered and
      dreamed. Toward sunset&mdash;without any noise inside the house or out to
      account for it&mdash;she started up on the bed, awake again in an instant.
      The drowsy obscurity of the room struck her with terror. She ran to the
      window, pushed open the shutters, and leaned far out into the evening air
      and the evening light. Her eyes devoured the trivial sights on the beach;
      her ears drank in the welcome murmur of the sea. Anything to deliver her
      from the waking impression which her dreams had left! No more darkness, no
      more repose. Sleep that came mercifully to others came treacherously to
      her. Sleep had only closed her eyes on the future, to open them on the
      past.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went down again into the parlor, eager to talk&mdash;no matter how
      idly, no matter on what trifles. The room was empty. Perhaps Mrs. Wragge
      had gone to her work&mdash;perhaps she was too tired to talk. Magdalen
      took her hat from the table and went out. The sea that she had shrunk
      from, a few hours since, looked friendly now. How lovely it was in its
      cool evening blue! What a god-like joy in the happy multitude of waves
      leaping up to the light of heaven!
    </p>
    <p>
      She stayed out until the night fell and the stars appeared. The night
      steadied her.
    </p>
    <p>
      By slow degrees her mind recovered its balance and she looked her position
      unflinchingly in the face. The vain hope that accident might defeat the
      very end for which, of her own free-will, she had ceaselessly plotted and
      toiled, vanished and left her; self-dissipated in its own weakness. She
      knew the true alternative, and faced it. On one side was the revolting
      ordeal of the marriage; on the other, the abandonment of her purpose. Was
      it too late to choose between the sacrifice of the purpose and the
      sacrifice of herself? Yes! too late. The backward path had closed behind
      her. Time that no wish could change, Time that no prayers could recall,
      had made her purpose a part of herself: once she had governed it; now it
      governed her. The more she shrank, the harder she struggled, the more
      mercilessly it drove her on. No other feeling in her was strong enough to
      master it&mdash;not even the horror that was maddening her&mdash;the
      horror of her marriage.
    </p>
    <p>
      Toward nine o&rsquo;clock she went back to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Walking again!&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, meeting her at the door. &ldquo;Come in and
      sit down, my dear. How tired you must be!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen smiled, and patted Mrs. Wragge kindly on the shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You forget how strong I am,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Nothing hurts me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She lit her candle and went upstairs again into her room. As she returned
      to the old place by her toilet-table, the vain hope in the three days of
      delay, the vain hope of deliverance by accident, came back to her&mdash;this
      time in a form more tangible than the form which it had hitherto worn.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Something may happen to him; something may
      happen to me. Something serious; something fatal. One of us may die.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A sudden change came over her face. She shivered, though there was no cold
      in the air. She started, though there was no noise to alarm her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One of us may die. I may be the one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She fell into deep thought, roused herself after a while, and, opening the
      door, called to Mrs. Wragge to come and speak to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were right in thinking I should fatigue myself,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;My walk
      has been a little too much for me. I feel tired, and I am going to bed.
      Good-night.&rdquo; She kissed Mrs. Wragge and softly closed the door again.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a few turns backward and forward in the room, she abruptly opened
      her writing-case and began a letter to her sister. The letter grew and
      grew under her hands; she filled sheet after sheet of note-paper. Her
      heart was full of her subject: it was her own story addressed to Norah.
      She shed no tears; she was composed to a quiet sadness. Her pen ran
      smoothly on. After writing for more than two hours, she left off while the
      letter was still unfinished. There was no signature attached to it&mdash;there
      was a blank space reserved, to be filled up at some other time. After
      putting away the case, with the sheets of writing secured inside it, she
      walked to the window for air, and stood there looking out.
    </p>
    <p>
      The moon was waning over the sea. The breeze of the earlier hours had died
      out. On earth and ocean, the spirit of the Night brooded in a deep and
      awful calm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her head drooped low on her bosom, and all the view waned before her eyes
      with the waning moon. She saw no sea, no sky. Death, the Tempter, was busy
      at her heart. Death, the Tempter, pointed homeward, to the grave of her
      dead parents in Combe-Raven churchyard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nineteen last birthday,&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;Only nineteen!&rdquo; She moved away
      from the window, hesitated, and then looked out again at the view. &ldquo;The
      beautiful night!&rdquo; she said, gratefully. &ldquo;Oh, the beautiful night!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She left the window and lay down on her bed. Sleep, that had come
      treacherously before, came mercifully now; came deep and dreamless, the
      image of her last waking thought&mdash;the image of Death.
    </p>
    <p>
      Early the next morning Mrs. Wragge went into Magdalen&rsquo;s room, and found
      that she had risen betimes. She was sitting before the glass, drawing the
      comb slowly through and through her hair&mdash;thoughtful and quiet.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How do you feel this morning, my dear?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;Quite well
      again?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After replying in the affirmative, she stopped, considered for a moment,
      and suddenly contradicted herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;not quite well. I am suffering a little from toothache.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As she altered her first answer in those words she gave a twist to her
      hair with the comb, so that it fell forward and hid her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      At breakfast she was very silent, and she took nothing but a cup of tea.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me go to the chemist&rsquo;s and get something,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, thank you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do let me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She refused for the second time, sharply and angrily. As usual, Mrs.
      Wragge submitted, and let her have her own way. When breakfast was over,
      she rose, without a word of explanation, and went out. Mrs. Wragge watched
      her from the window and saw that she took the direction of the chemist&rsquo;s
      shop.
    </p>
    <p>
      On reaching the chemist&rsquo;s door she stopped&mdash;paused before entering
      the shop, and looked in at the window&mdash;hesitated, and walked away a
      little&mdash;hesitated again, and took the first turning which led back to
      the beach.
    </p>
    <p>
      Without looking about her, without caring what place she chose, she seated
      herself on the shingle. The only persons who were near to her, in the
      position she now occupied, were a nursemaid and two little boys. The
      youngest of the two had a tiny toy-ship in his hand. After looking at
      Magdalen for a little while with the quaintest gravity and attention, the
      boy suddenly approached her, and opened the way to an acquaintance by
      putting his toy composedly on her lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look at my ship,&rdquo; said the child, crossing his hands on Magdalen&rsquo;s knee.
    </p>
    <p>
      She was not usually patient with children. In happier days she would not
      have met the boy&rsquo;s advance toward her as she met it now. The hard despair
      in her eyes left them suddenly; her fast-closed lips parted and trembled.
      She put the ship back into the child&rsquo;s hands and lifted him on her lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you give me a kiss?&rdquo; she said, faintly. The boy looked at his ship
      as if he would rather have kissed the ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      She repeated the question&mdash;repeated it almost humbly. The child put
      his hand up to her neck and kissed her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I was your sister, would you love me?&rdquo; All the misery of her
      friendless position, all the wasted tenderness of her heart, poured from
      her in those words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would you love me?&rdquo; she repeated, hiding her face on the bosom of the
      child&rsquo;s frock.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said the boy. &ldquo;Look at my ship.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at the ship through her gathering tears.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you call it?&rdquo; she asked, trying ha rd to find her way even to the
      interest of a child.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I call it Uncle Kirke&rsquo;s ship,&rdquo; said the boy. &ldquo;Uncle Kirke has gone away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The name recalled nothing to her memory. No remembrances but old
      remembrances lived in her now. &ldquo;Gone?&rdquo; she repeated absently, thinking
      what she should say to her little friend next.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said the boy. &ldquo;Gone to China.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Even from the lips of a child that word struck her to the heart. She put
      Kirke&rsquo;s little nephew off her lap, and instantly left the beach.
    </p>
    <p>
      As she turned back to the house, the struggle of the past night renewed
      itself in her mind. But the sense of relief which the child had brought to
      her, the reviving tenderness which she had felt while he sat on her knee,
      influenced her still. She was conscious of a dawning hope, opening freshly
      on her thoughts, as the boy&rsquo;s innocent eyes had opened on her face when he
      came to her on the beach. Was it too late to turn back? Once more she
      asked herself that question, and now, for the first time, she asked it in
      doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      She ran up to her own room with a lurking distrust in her changed self
      which warned her to act, and not to think. Without waiting to remove her
      shawl or to take off her hat, she opened her writing-case and addressed
      these lines to Captain Wragge as fast as her pen could trace them:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will find the money I promised you inclosed in this. My resolution
      has failed me. The horror of marrying him is more than I can face. I have
      left Aldborough. Pity my weakness, and forget me. Let us never meet
      again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With throbbing heart, with eager, trembling fingers, she drew her little
      white silk bag from her bosom and took out the banknotes to inclose them
      in the letter. Her hand searched impetuously; her hand had lost its
      discrimination of touch. She grasped the whole contents of the bag in one
      handful of papers, and drew them out violently, tearing some and
      disarranging the folds of others. As she threw them down before her on the
      table, the first object that met her eye was her own handwriting, faded
      already with time. She looked closer, and saw the words she had copied
      from her dead father&rsquo;s letter&mdash;saw the lawyer&rsquo;s brief and terrible
      commentary on them confronting her at the bottom of the page:
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s daughters are Nobody&rsquo;s Children, and the law leaves them
      helpless at their uncle&rsquo;s mercy.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      Her throbbing heart stopped; her trembling hands grew icily quiet. All the
      Past rose before her in mute, overwhelming reproach. She took up the lines
      which her own hand had written hardly a minute since, and looked at the
      ink, still wet on the letters, with a vacant incredulity.
    </p>
    <p>
      The color that had risen on her cheeks faded from them once more. The hard
      despair looked out again, cold and glittering, in her tearless eyes. She
      folded the banknotes carefully, and put them back in her bag. She pressed
      the copy of her father&rsquo;s letter to her lips, and returned it to its place
      with the banknotes. When the bag was in her bosom again, she waited a
      little, with her face hidden in her hands, then deliberately tore up the
      lines addressed to Captain Wragge. Before the ink was dry, the letter lay
      in fragments on the floor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; she said, as the last morsel of the torn paper dropped from her
      hand. &ldquo;On the way I go there is no turning back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose composedly and left the room. While descending the stairs, she
      met Mrs. Wragge coming up. &ldquo;Going out again, my dear?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Wragge.
      &ldquo;May I go with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s attention wandered. Instead of answering the question, she
      absently answered her own thoughts.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thousands of women marry for money,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Why shouldn&rsquo;t I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The helpless perplexity of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s face as she spoke those words
      roused her to a sense of present things. &ldquo;My poor dear!&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;I
      puzzle you, don&rsquo;t I? Never mind what I say&mdash;all girls talk nonsense,
      and I&rsquo;m no better than the rest of them. Come! I&rsquo;ll give you a treat. You
      shall enjoy yourself while the captain is away. We will have a long drive
      by ourselves. Put on your smart bonnet, and come with me to the hotel.
      I&rsquo;ll tell the landlady to put a nice cold dinner into a basket. You shall
      have all the things you like, and I&rsquo;ll wait on you. When you are an old,
      old woman, you will remember me kindly, won&rsquo;t you? You will say: &lsquo;She
      wasn&rsquo;t a bad girl; hundreds worse than she was live and prosper, and
      nobody blames them.&rsquo; There! there! go and put your bonnet on. Oh, my God,
      what is my heart made of! How it lives and lives, when other girls&rsquo; hearts
      would have died in them long ago!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In half an hour more she and Mrs. Wragge were seated together in the
      carriage. One of the horses was restive at starting. &ldquo;Flog him,&rdquo; she cried
      angrily to the driver. &ldquo;What are you frightened about? Flog him! Suppose
      the carriage was upset,&rdquo; she said, turning suddenly to her companion; &ldquo;and
      suppose I was thrown out and killed on the spot? Nonsense! don&rsquo;t look at
      me in that way. I&rsquo;m like your husband; I have a dash of humor, and I&rsquo;m
      only joking.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They were out the whole day. When they reached home again, it was after
      dark. The long succession of hours passed in the fresh air left them both
      with the same sense of fatigue. Again that night Magdalen slept the deep
      dreamless sleep of the night before. And so the Friday closed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her last thought at night had been the thought which had sustained her
      throughout the day. She had laid her head on the pillow with the same
      reckless resolution to submit to the coming trial which had already
      expressed itself in words when she and Mrs. Wragge met by accident on the
      stairs. When she woke on the morning of Saturday, the resolution was gone.
      The Friday&rsquo;s thoughts&mdash;the Friday&rsquo;s events even&mdash;were blotted
      out of her mind. Once again, creeping chill through the flow of her young
      blood, she felt the slow and deadly prompting of despair which had come to
      her in the waning moonlight, which had whispered to her in the awful calm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I saw the end as the end must be,&rdquo; she said to herself, &ldquo;on Thursday
      night. I have been wrong ever since.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When she and her companion met that morning, she reiterated her complaint
      of suffering from the toothache; she repeated her refusal to allow Mrs.
      Wragge to procure a remedy; she left the house after breakfast, in the
      direction of the chemist&rsquo;s shop, exactly as she had left it on the morning
      before.
    </p>
    <p>
      This time she entered the shop without an instant&rsquo;s hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have got an attack of toothache,&rdquo; she said, abruptly, to an elderly man
      who stood behind the counter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I look at the tooth, miss?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no necessity to look. It is a hollow tooth. I think I have
      caught cold in it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The chemist recommended various remedies which were in vogue fifteen years
      since. She declined purchasing any of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have always found Laudanum relieve the pain better than anything else,&rdquo;
       she said, trifling with the bottles on the counter, and looking at them
      while she spoke, instead of looking at the chemist. &ldquo;Let me have some
      Laudanum.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly, miss. Excuse my asking the question&mdash;it is only a matter
      of form. You are staying at Aldborough, I think?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. I am Miss Bygrave, of North Shingles.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The chemist bowed; and, turning to his shelves, filled an ordinary
      half-ounce bottle with laudanum immediately. In ascertaining his
      customer&rsquo;s name and address beforehand, the owner of the shop had taken a
      precaution which was natural to a careful man, but which was by no means
      universal, under similar circumstances, in the state of the law at that
      time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I put you up a little cotton wool with the laudanum?&rdquo; he asked,
      after he had placed a label on the bottle, and had written a word on it in
      large letters.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you please. What have you just written on the bottle?&rdquo; She put the
      question sharply, with something of distrust as well as curiosity in her
      manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      The chemist answered the question by turning the label toward her. She saw
      written on it, in large letters&mdash;POISON.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I like to be on the safe side, miss,&rdquo; said the old man, smiling. &ldquo;Very
      worthy people in other respects are often sadly careless where poisons are
      concerned.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She began trifling again with the bottles on the counter, and put another
      question, with an ill-concealed anxiety to hear the answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there danger,&rdquo; she asked, &ldquo;in such a little drop of Laudanum as that?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is Death in it, miss,&rdquo; replied the chemist, quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Death to a child, or to a person in delicate health?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Death to the strongest man in England, let him be who he may.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that answer, the chemist sealed up the bottle in its wrapping of
      white paper and handed the laudanum to Magdalen across the counter. She
      laughed as she took it from him, and paid for it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There will be no fear of accidents at North Shingles,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I shall
      keep the bottle locked up in my dressing-case. If it doesn&rsquo;t relieve the
      pain, I must come to you again, and try some other remedy. Good-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-morning, miss.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went straight back to the house without once looking up, without
      noticing any one who passed her. She brushed by Mrs. Wragge in the passage
      as she might have brushed by a piece of furniture. She ascended the
      stairs, and caught her foot twice in her dress, from sheer inattention to
      the common precaution of holding it up. The trivial daily interests of
      life had lost their hold on her already.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the privacy of her own room, she took the bottle from its wrapping, and
      threw the paper and the cotton wool into the fire-place. At the moment
      when she did this there was a knock at the door. She hid the little
      bottle, and looked up impatiently. Mrs. Wragge came into the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you got something for your toothache, my dear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can I do anything to help you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge still lingered uneasily near the door. Her manner showed
      plainly that she had something more to say.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is it?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, sharply.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be angry,&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not settled in my mind about the
      captain. He&rsquo;s a great writer, and he hasn&rsquo;t written. He&rsquo;s as quick as
      lightning, and he hasn&rsquo;t come back. Here&rsquo;s Saturday, and no signs of him.
      Has he run away, do you think? Has anything happened to him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I should think not. Go downstairs; I&rsquo;ll come and speak to you about it
      directly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As soon as she was alone again, Magdalen rose from her chair, advanced
      toward a cupboard in the room which locked, and paused for a moment, with
      her hand on the key, in doubt. Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s appearance had disturbed the
      whole current of her thoughts. Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s last question, trifling as it
      was, had checked her on the verge of the precipice&mdash;had roused the
      old vain hope in her once more of release by accident.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why not?&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Why may something not have happened to one of them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She placed the laudanum in the cupboard, locked it, and put the key in her
      packet. &ldquo;Time enough still,&rdquo; she thought, &ldquo;before Monday. I&rsquo;ll wait till
      the captain comes back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After some consultation downstairs, it was agreed that the servant should
      sit up that night, in expectation of her master&rsquo;s return. The day passed
      quietly, without events of any kind. Magdalen dreamed away the hours over
      a book. A weary patience of expectation was all she felt now&mdash;the
      poignant torment of thought was dulled and blunted at last. She passed the
      day and the evening in the parlor, vaguely conscious of a strange feeling
      of aversion to going back to her own room. As the night advanced, as the
      noises ceased indoors and out, her restlessness began to return. She
      endeavored to quiet herself by reading. Books failed to fix her attention.
      The newspaper was lying in a corner of the room: she tried the newspaper
      next.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked mechanically at the headings of the articles; she listlessly
      turned over page after page, until her wandering attention was arrested by
      the narrative of an Execution in a distant part of England. There was
      nothing to strike her in the story of the crime, and yet she read it. It
      was a common, horribly common, act of bloodshed&mdash;the murder of a
      woman in farm-service by a man in the same employment who was jealous of
      her. He had been convicted on no extraordinary evidence, he had been
      hanged under no unusual circumstances. He had made his confession, when he
      knew there was no hope for him, like other criminals of his class, and the
      newspaper had printed it at the end of the article, in these terms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I kept company with the deceased for a year or thereabouts. I said I
      would marry her when I had money enough. She said I had money enough now.
      We had a quarrel. She refused to walk out with me any more; she wouldn&rsquo;t
      draw me my beer; she took up with my fellow-servant, David Crouch. I went
      to her on the Saturday, and said I would marry her as soon as we could be
      asked in church if she would give up Crouch. She laughed at me. She turned
      me out of the wash-house, and the rest of them saw her turn me out. I was
      not easy in my mind. I went and sat on the gate&mdash;the gate in the
      meadow they call Pettit&rsquo;s Piece. I thought I would shoot her. I went and
      fetched my gun and loaded it. I went out into Pettit&rsquo;s Piece again. I was
      hard put to it to make up my mind. I thought I would try my luck&mdash;I
      mean try whether to kill her or not&mdash;-by throwing up the Spud of the
      plow into the air. I said to myself, if it falls flat, I&rsquo;ll spare her; if
      it falls point in the earth, I&rsquo;ll kill her. I took a good swing with it,
      and shied it up. It fell point in the earth. I went and shot her. It was a
      bad job, but I did it. I did it, as they said I did it at the trial. I
      hope the Lord will have mercy on me. I wish my mother to have my old
      clothes. I have no more to say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In the happier days of her life, Magdalen would have passed over the
      narrative of the execution, and the printed confession which accompanied
      it unread; the subject would have failed to attract her. She read the
      horrible story now&mdash;read it with an interest unintelligible to
      herself. Her attention, which had wandered over higher and better things,
      followed every sentence of the murderer&rsquo;s hideously direct confession from
      beginning to end. If the man or the woman had been known to her, if the
      place had been familiar to her memory, she could hardly have followed the
      narrative more closely, or have felt a more distinct impression of it left
      on her mind. She laid down the paper, wondering at herself; she took it up
      once more, and tried to read some other portion of the contents. The
      effort was useless; her attention wandered again. She threw the paper
      away, and went out into the garden. The night was dark; the stars were few
      and faint. She could just see the gravel-walk&mdash;she could just pace
      backward and forward between the house door and the gate.
    </p>
    <p>
      The confession in the newspaper had taken a fearful hold on her mind. As
      she paced the walk, the black night opened over the sea, and showed her
      the murderer in the field hurling the Spud of the plow into the air. She
      ran, shuddering, back to the house. The murderer followed her into the
      parlor. She seized the candle and went up into her room. The vision of her
      own distempered fancy followed her to the place where the laudanum was
      hidden, and vanished there.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was midnight, and there was no sign yet of the captain&rsquo;s return.
    </p>
    <p>
      She took from the writing-case the long letter which she had written to
      Norah, and slowly read it through. The letter quieted her. When she
      reached the blank space left at the end, she hurriedly turned back and
      began it over again.
    </p>
    <p>
      One o&rsquo;clock struck from the church clock, and still the captain never
      appeared.
    </p>
    <p>
      She read the letter for the second time; she turned back obstinately,
      despairingly, and began it for the third time. As she once more reached
      the last page, she looked at her watch. It was a quarter to two. She had
      just put the watch back in the belt of her dress, when there came to her&mdash;far
      off in the stillness of the morning&mdash;a sound of wheels.
    </p>
    <p>
      She dropped the letter and clasped her cold hands in her lap and listened.
      The sound came on, faster and faster, nearer and nearer&mdash;the trivial
      sound to all other ears; the sound of Doom to hers. It passed the side of
      the house; it traveled a little further on; it stopped. She heard a loud
      knocking&mdash;then the opening of a window&mdash;then voices&mdash;then a
      long silence&mdash;than the wheels again coming back&mdash;then the
      opening of the door below, and the sound of the captain&rsquo;s voice in the
      passage.
    </p>
    <p>
      She could endure it no longer. She opened her door a little way and called
      to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      He ran upstairs instantly, astonished that she was not in bed. She spoke
      to him through the narrow opening of the door, keeping herself hidden
      behind it, for she was afraid to let him see her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has anything gone wrong?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Make your mind easy,&rdquo; he answered. &ldquo;Nothing has gone wrong.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is no accident likely to happen between this and Monday?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None whatever. The marriage is a certainty.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A certainty?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-night.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She put her hand out through the door. He took it with some little
      surprise; it was not often in his experience that she gave him her hand of
      her own accord.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have sat up too long,&rdquo; he said, as he felt the clasp of her cold
      fingers. &ldquo;I am afraid you will have a bad night&mdash;I&rsquo;m afraid you will
      not sleep.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She softly closed the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall sleep,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;sounder than you think for.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was past two o&rsquo;clock when she shut herself up alone in her room. Her
      chair stood in its customary place by the toilet-table. She sat down for a
      few minutes thoughtfully, then opened her letter to Norah, and turned to
      the end where the blank space was left. The last lines written above the
      space ran thus: &ldquo;... I have laid my whole heart bare to you; I have hidden
      nothing. It has come to this. The end I have toiled for, at such terrible
      cost to myself, is an end which I must reach or die. It is wickedness,
      madness, what you will&mdash;but it is so. There are now two journeys
      before me to choose between. If I can marry him&mdash;the journey to the
      church. If the profanation of myself is more than I can bear&mdash;the
      journey to the grave!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Under that last sentence, she wrote these lines:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My choice is made. If the cruel law will let you, lay me with my father
      and mother in the churchyard at home. Farewell, my love! Be always
      innocent; be always happy. If Frank ever asks about me, say I died
      forgiving him. Don&rsquo;t grieve long for me, Norah&mdash;I am not worth it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She sealed the letter, and addressed it to her sister. The tears gathered
      in her eyes as she laid it on the table. She waited until her sight was
      clear again, and then took the banknotes once more from the little bag in
      her bosom. After wrapping them in a sheet of note paper, she wrote Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s name on the inclosure, and added these words below it: &ldquo;Lock the
      door of my room, and leave me till my sister comes. The money I promised
      you is in this. You are not to blame; it is my fault, and mine only. If
      you have any friendly remembrance of me, be kind to your wife for my
      sake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After placing the inclosure by the letter to Norah, she rose and looked
      round the room. Some few little things in it were not in their places. She
      set them in order, and drew the curtains on either side at the head of her
      bed. Her own dress was the next object of her scrutiny. It was all as
      neat, as pure, as prettily arranged as ever. Nothing about her was
      disordered but her hair. Some tresses had fallen loose on one side of her
      head; she carefully put them back in their places with the help of her
      glass. &ldquo;How pale I look!&rdquo; she thought, with a faint smile. &ldquo;Shall I be
      paler still when they find me in the morning?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went straight to the place where the laudanum was hidden, and took it
      out. The bottle was so small that it lay easily in the palm of her hand.
      She let it remain there for a little while, and stood looking at it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEATH!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;In this drop of brown drink&mdash;DEATH!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As the words passed her lips, an agony of unutterable horror seized on her
      in an instant. She crossed the room unsteadily, with a maddening confusion
      in her head, with a suffocating anguish at her heart. She caught at the
      table to support herself. The faint clink of the bottle, as it fell
      harmlessly from her loosened grasp and rolled against some porcelain
      object on the table, struck through her brain like the stroke of a knife.
      The sound of her own voice, sunk to a whisper&mdash;her voice only
      uttering that one word, Death&mdash;rushed in her ears like the rushing of
      a wind. She dragged herself to the bedside, and rested her head against
      it, sitting on the floor. &ldquo;Oh, my life! my life!&rdquo; she thought; &ldquo;what is my
      life worth, that I cling to it like this?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      An interval passed, and she felt her strength returning. She raised
      herself on her knees and hid her face on the bed. She tried to pray&mdash;to
      pray to be forgiven for seeking the refuge of death. Frantic words burst
      from her lips&mdash;words which would have risen to cries, if she had not
      stifled them in the bed-clothes. She started to her feet; despair
      strengthened her with a headlong fury against herself. In one moment she
      was back at the table; in another, the poison was once more in her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      She removed the cork and lifted the bottle to her mouth.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the first cold touch of the glass on her lips, her strong young life
      leaped up in her leaping blood, and fought with the whole frenzy of its
      loathing against the close terror of Death. Every active power in the
      exuberant vital force that was in her rose in revolt against the
      destruction which her own will would fain have wreaked on her own life.
      She paused: for the second time, she paused in spite of herself. There, in
      the glorious perfection of her youth and health&mdash;there, trembling on
      the verge of human existence, she stood; with the kiss of the Destroyer
      close at her lips, and Nature, faithful to its sacred trust, fighting for
      the salvation of her to the last.
    </p>
    <p>
      No word passed her lips. Her cheeks flushed deep; her breath came thick
      and fast. With the poison still in her hand, with the sense that she might
      faint in another moment, she made for the window, and threw back the
      curtain that covered it.
    </p>
    <p>
      The new day had risen. The broad gray dawn flowed in on her, over the
      quiet eastern sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      She saw the waters heaving, large and silent, in the misty calm; she felt
      the fresh breath of the morning flutter cool on her face. Her strength
      returned; her mind cleared a little. At the sight of the sea, her memory
      recalled the walk in the garden overnight, and the picture which her
      distempered fancy had painted on the black void. In thought, she saw the
      picture again&mdash;the murderer hurling the Spud of the plow into the
      air, and setting the life or death of the woman who had deserted him on
      the hazard of the falling point. The infection of that terrible
      superstition seized on her mind as suddenly as the new day had burst on
      her view. The premise of release which she saw in it from the horror of
      her own hesitation roused the last energies of her despair. She resolved
      to end the struggle by setting her life or death on the hazard of a
      chance.
    </p>
    <p>
      On what chance?
    </p>
    <p>
      The sea showed it to her. Dimly distinguishable through the mist, she saw
      a little fleet of coasting-vessels slowly drifting toward the house, all
      following the same direction with the favoring set of the tide. In half an
      hour&mdash;perhaps in less&mdash;the fleet would have passed her window.
      The hands of her watch pointed to four o&rsquo;clock. She seated herself close
      at the side of the window, with her back toward the quarter from which the
      vessels were drifting down on her&mdash;with the poison placed on the
      window-sill and the watch on her lap. For one half-hour to come she
      determined to wait there and count the vessels as they went by. If in that
      time an even number passed her, the sign given should be a sign to live.
      If the uneven number prevailed, the end should be Death.
    </p>
    <p>
      With that final resolution, she rested her head against the window and
      waited for the ships to pass.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first came, high, dark and near in the mist, gliding silently over the
      silent sea. An interval&mdash;and the second followed, with the third
      close after it. Another interval, longer and longer drawn out&mdash;and
      nothing passed. She looked at her watch. Twelve minutes, and three ships.
      Three.
    </p>
    <p>
      The fourth came, slower than the rest, larger than the rest, further off
      in the mist than the rest. The interval followed; a long interval once
      more. Then the next vessel passed, darkest and nearest of all. Five. The
      next uneven number&mdash;
    </p>
    <p>
      Five.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked at her watch again. Nineteen minutes, and five ships. Twenty
      minutes. Twenty-one, two, three&mdash;and no sixth vessel. Twenty-four,
      and the sixth came by. Twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven,
      twenty-eight, and the next uneven number&mdash;the fatal Seven&mdash;glided
      into view. Two minutes to the end of the half-hour. And seven ships.
    </p>
    <p>
      Twenty-nine, and nothing followed in the wake of the seventh ship. The
      minute-hand of the watch moved on half-way to thirty, and still the white
      heaving sea was a misty blank. Without moving her head from the window,
      she took the poison in one hand, and raised the watch in the other. As the
      quick seconds counted each other out, her eyes, as quick as they, looked
      from the watch to the sea, from the sea to the watch&mdash;looked for the
      last time at the sea&mdash;and saw the EIGHTH ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      She never moved, she never spoke. The death of thought, the death of
      feeling, seemed to have come to her already. She put back the poison
      mechanically on the ledge of the window and watched, as in a dream, the
      ship gliding smoothly on its silent way&mdash;gliding till it melted dimly
      into shadow&mdash;gliding till it was lost in the mist.
    </p>
    <p>
      The strain on her mind relaxed when the Messenger of Life had passed from
      her sight.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Providence?&rdquo; she whispered faintly to herself. &ldquo;Or chance?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her eyes closed, and her head fell back. When the sense of life returned
      to her, the morning sun was warm on her face&mdash;the blue heaven looked
      down on her&mdash;and the sea was a sea of gold.
    </p>
    <p>
      She fell on her knees at the window and burst into tears.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      Toward noon that day, the captain, waiting below stairs, and hearing no
      movement in Magdalen&rsquo;s room, felt uneasy at the long silence. He desired
      the new maid to follow him upstairs, and, pointing to the door, told her
      to go in softly and see whether her mistress was awake.
    </p>
    <p>
      The maid entered the room, remained there a moment, and came out again,
      closing the door gently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She looks beautiful, sir,&rdquo; said the girl; &ldquo;and she&rsquo;s sleeping as quietly
      as a new-born child.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER XIV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE morning of her husband&rsquo;s return to North Shingles was a morning
      memorable forever in the domestic calendar of Mrs. Wragge. She dated from
      that occasion the first announcement which reached her of Magdalen&rsquo;s
      marriage.
    </p>
    <p>
      It had been Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s earthly lot to pass her life in a state of
      perpetual surprise. Never yet, however, had she wandered in such a maze of
      astonishment as the maze in which she lost herself when the captain coolly
      told her the truth. She had been sharp enough to suspect Mr. Noel Vanstone
      of coming to the house in the character of a sweetheart on approval; and
      she had dimly interpreted certain expressions of impatience which had
      fallen from Magdalen&rsquo;s lips as boding ill for the success of his suit, but
      her utmost penetration had never reached as far as a suspicion of the
      impending marriage. She rose from one climax of amazement to another, as
      her husband proceeded with his disclosure. A wedding in the family at a
      day&rsquo;s notice! and that wedding Magdalen&rsquo;s! and not a single new dress
      ordered for anybody, the bride included! and the Oriental Cashmere Robe
      totally unavailable on the occasion when she might have worn it to the
      greatest advantage! Mrs. Wragge dropped crookedly into a chair, and beat
      her disorderly hands on her unsymmetrical knees, in utter forgetfulness of
      the captain&rsquo;s presence and the captain&rsquo;s terrible eye. It would not have
      surprised her to hear that the world had come to an end, and that the only
      mortal whom Destiny had overlooked, in winding up the affairs of this
      earthly planet, was herself!
    </p>
    <p>
      Leaving his wife to recover her composure by her own unaided efforts,
      Captain Wragge withdrew to wait for Magdalen&rsquo;s appearance in the lower
      regions of the house. It was close on one o&rsquo;clock before the sound of
      footsteps in the room above warned him that she was awake and stirring. He
      called at once for the maid (whose name he had ascertained to be Louisa),
      and sent her upstairs to her mistress for the second time.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen was standing by her dressing-table when a faint tap at the door
      suddenly roused her. The tap was followed by the sound of a meek voice,
      which announced itself as the voice of &ldquo;her maid,&rdquo; and inquired if Miss
      Bygrave needed any assistance that morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not at present,&rdquo; said Magdalen, as soon as she had recovered the surprise
      of finding herself unexpectedly provided with an attendant. &ldquo;I will ring
      when I want you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After dismissing the woman with that answer, she accidentally looked from
      the door to the window. Any speculations on the subject of the new servant
      in which she might otherwise have engaged were instantly suspended by the
      sight of the bottle of laudanum, still standing on the ledge of the
      window, where she had left it at sunrise. She took it once more in her
      hand, with a strange confusion of feeling&mdash;with a vague doubt even
      yet, whether the sight of it reminded her of a terrible reality or a
      terrible dream. Her first impulse was to rid herself of it on the spot.
      She raised the bottle to throw the contents out of the window, and paused,
      in sudden distrust of the impulse that had come to her. &ldquo;I have accepted
      my new life,&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;How do I know what that life may have in store
      for me?&rdquo; She turned from the window and went back to the table. &ldquo;I may be
      forced to drink it yet,&rdquo; she said, and put the laudanum into her
      dressing-case.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her mind was not at ease when she had done this: there seemed to be some
      indefinable ingratitude in the act. Still she made no attempt to remove
      the bottle from its hiding-place. She hurried on her toilet; she hastened
      the time when she could ring for the maid, and forget herself and her
      waking thoughts in a new subject. After touching the bell, she took from
      the table her letter to Norah and her letter to the captain, put them both
      into her dressing-case with the laudanum, and locked it securely with the
      key which she kept attached to her watch-chain.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s first impression of her attendant was not an agreeable one. She
      could not investigate the girl with the experienced eye of the landlady at
      the London hotel, who had characterized the stranger as a young person
      overtaken by misfortune, and who had showed plainly, by her look and
      manner, of what nature she suspected that misfortune to be. But with this
      drawback, Magdalen was perfectly competent to detect the tokens of
      sickness and sorrow lurking under the surface of the new maid&rsquo;s activity
      and politeness. She suspected the girl was ill-tempered; she disliked her
      name; and she was indisposed to welcome any servant who had been engaged
      by Noel Vanstone. But after the first few minutes, &ldquo;Louisa&rdquo; grew on her
      liking. She answered all the questions put to her with perfect directness;
      she appeared to understand her duties thoroughly; and she never spoke
      until she was spoken to first. After making all the inquiries that
      occurred to her at the time, and after determining to give the maid a fair
      trial, Magdalen rose to leave the room. The very air in it was still heavy
      to her with the oppression of the past night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you anything more to say to me?&rdquo; she asked, turning to the servant,
      with her hand on the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon, miss,&rdquo; said Louisa, very respectfully and very
      quietly. &ldquo;I think my master told me that the marriage was to be
      to-morrow?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen repressed the shudder that stole over her at that reference to
      the marriage on the lips of a stranger, and answered in the affirmative.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a very short time, miss, to prepare in. If you would be so kind as
      to give me my orders about the packing before you go downstairs&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are no such preparations to make as you suppose,&rdquo; said Magdalen,
      hastily. &ldquo;The few things I have here can be all packed at once, if you
      like. I shall wear the same dress to-morrow which I have on to-day. Leave
      out the straw bonnet and the light shawl, and put everything else into my
      boxes. I have no new dresses to pack; I have nothing ordered for the
      occasion of any sort.&rdquo; She tried to add some commonplace phrases of
      explanation, accounting as probably as might be for the absence of the
      usual wedding outfit and wedding-dress. But no further reference to the
      marriage would pass her lips, and without an other word she abruptly left
      the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The meek and melancholy Louisa stood lost in astonishment. &ldquo;Something
      wrong here,&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m half afraid of my new place already.&rdquo; She
      sighed resignedly, shook her head, and went to the wardrobe. She first
      examined the drawers underneath, took out the various articles of linen
      laid inside, and placed them on chairs. Opening the upper part of the
      wardrobe next, she ranged the dresses in it side by side on the bed. Her
      last proceeding was to push the empty boxes into the middle of the room,
      and to compare the space at her disposal with the articles of dress which
      she had to pack. She completed her preliminary calculations with the ready
      self-reliance of a woman who thoroughly understood her business, and began
      the packing forthwith. Just as she had placed the first article of linen
      in the smaller box, the door of the room opened, and the house-servant,
      eager for gossip, came in.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you want?&rdquo; asked Louisa, quietly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you ever hear of anything like this!&rdquo; said the house-servant,
      entering on her subject immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Like what?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Like this marriage, to be sure. You&rsquo;re London bred, they tell me. Did you
      ever hear of a young lady being married without a single new thing to her
      back? No wedding veil, and no wedding breakfast, and no wedding favors for
      the servants. It&rsquo;s flying in the face of Providence&mdash;that&rsquo;s what I
      say. I&rsquo;m only a poor servant, I know. But it&rsquo;s wicked, downright wicked&mdash;and
      I don&rsquo;t care who hears me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa went on with the packing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Look at her dresses!&rdquo; persisted the house-servant, waving her hand
      indignantly at the bed. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m only a poor girl, but I wouldn&rsquo;t marry the
      best man alive without a new gown to my back. Look here! look at this
      dowdy brown thing here. Alpaca! You&rsquo;re not going to pack this Alpaca
      thing, are you? Why, it&rsquo;s hardly fit for a servant! I don&rsquo;t know that I&rsquo;d
      take a gift of it if it was offered me. It would do for me if I took it up
      in the skirt, and let it out in the waist&mdash;and it wouldn&rsquo;t look so
      bad with a bit of bright trimming, would it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let that dress alone, if you please,&rdquo; said Louisa, as quietly as ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What did you say?&rdquo; inquired the other, doubting whether her ears had not
      deceived her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I said, let that dress alone. It belongs to my mistress, and I have my
      mistress&rsquo;s orders to pack up everything in the room. You are not helping
      me by coming here&mdash;you are very much in my way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well!&rdquo; said the house-servant, &ldquo;you may be London bred, as they say. But
      if these are your London manners, give me Suffolk!&rdquo; She opened the door
      with an angry snatch at the handle, shut it violently, opened it again,
      and looked in. &ldquo;Give me Suffolk!&rdquo; said the house-servant, with a parting
      nod of her head to point the edge of her sarcasm.
    </p>
    <p>
      Louisa proceeded impenetrably with her packing up.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having neatly disposed of the linen in the smaller box, she turned her
      attention to the dresses next. After passing them carefully in review, to
      ascertain which was the least valuable of the collection, and to place
      that one at the bottom of the trunk for the rest to lie on, she made her
      choice with very little difficulty. The first gown which she put into the
      box was&mdash;the brown Alpaca dress.
    </p>
    <p>
      Meanwhile Magdalen had joined the captain downstairs. Although he could
      not fail to notice the languor in her face and the listlessness of all her
      movements, he was relieved to find that she met him with perfect
      composure. She was even self-possessed enough to ask him for news of his
      journey, with no other signs of agitation than a passing change of color
      and a little trembling of the lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So much for the past,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, when his narrative of the
      expedition to London by way of St. Crux had come to an end. &ldquo;Now for the
      present. The bridegroom&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If it makes no difference,&rdquo; she interposed, &ldquo;call him Mr. Noel Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With all my heart. Mr. Noel Vanstone is coming here this afternoon to
      dine and spend the evening. He will be tiresome in the last degree; but,
      like all tiresome people, he is not to be got rid of on any terms. Before
      he comes, I have a last word or two of caution for your private ear. By
      this time to-morrow we shall have parted&mdash;without any certain
      knowledge, on either side, of our ever meeting again. I am anxious to
      serve your interests faithfully to the last; I am anxious you should feel
      that I have done all I could for your future security when we say
      good-by.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen looked at him in surprise. He spoke in altered tones. He was
      agitated; he was strangely in earnest. Something in his look and manner
      took her memory back to the first night at Aldborough, when she had opened
      her mind to him in the darkening solitude&mdash;when they two had sat
      together alone on the slope of the martello tower. &ldquo;I have no reason to
      think otherwise than kindly of you,&rdquo; she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge suddenly left his chair, and took a turn backward and
      forward in the room. Magdalen&rsquo;s last words seemed to have produced some
      extraordinary disturbance in him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Damn it!&rdquo; he broke out; &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t let you say that. You have reason to
      think ill of me. I have cheated you. You never got your fair share of
      profit from the Entertainment, from first to last. There! now the murder&rsquo;s
      out!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen smiled, and signed to him to come back to his chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know you cheated me,&rdquo; she said, quietly. &ldquo;You were in the exercise of
      your profession, Captain Wragge. I expected it when I joined you. I made
      no complaint at the time, and I make none now. If the money you took is
      any recompense for all the trouble I have given you, you are heartily
      welcome to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you shake hands on that?&rdquo; asked the captain, with an awkwardness and
      hesitation strongly at variance with his customary ease of manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen gave him her hand. He wrung it hard. &ldquo;You are a strange girl,&rdquo; he
      said, trying to speak lightly. &ldquo;You have laid a hold on me that I don&rsquo;t
      quite understand. I&rsquo;m half uncomfortable at taking the money from you now;
      and yet you don&rsquo;t want it, do you?&rdquo; He hesitated. &ldquo;I almost wish,&rdquo; he
      said, &ldquo;I had never met you on the Walls of York.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is too late to wish that, Captain Wragge. Say no more. You only
      distress me&mdash;say no more. We have other subjects to talk about. What
      were those words of caution which you had for my private ear?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain took another turn in the room, and struggled back again into
      his every-day character. He produced from his pocketbook Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      letter to her master, and handed it to Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is the letter that might have ruined us if it had ever reached its
      address,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Read it carefully. I have a question to ask you when
      you have done.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen read the letter. &ldquo;What is this proof,&rdquo; she inquired, &ldquo;which Mrs.
      Lecount relies on so confidently!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The very question I was going to ask you,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;Consult
      your memory of what happened when you tried that experiment in Vauxhall
      Walk. Did Mrs. Lecount get no other chance against you than the chances
      you have told me of already?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She discovered that my face was disguised, and she heard me speak in my
      own voice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And nothing more?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing more.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good. Then my interpretation of the letter is clearly the right one.
      The proof Mrs. Lecount relies on is my wife&rsquo;s infernal ghost story&mdash;which
      is, in plain English, the story of Miss Bygrave having been seen in Miss
      Vanstone&rsquo;s disguise; the witness being the very person who is afterward
      presented at Aldborough in the character of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s aunt. An
      excellent chance for Mrs. Lecount, if she can only lay her hand at the
      right time on Mrs. Wragge, and no chance at all, if she can&rsquo;t. Make your
      mind easy on that point. Mrs. Lecount and my wife have seen the last of
      each other. In the meantime, don&rsquo;t neglect the warning I give you, in
      giving you this letter. Tear it up, for fear of accidents, but don&rsquo;t
      forget it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Trust me to remember it,&rdquo; replied Magdalen, destroying the letter while
      she spoke. &ldquo;Have you anything more to tell me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have some information to give you,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge, &ldquo;which may be
      useful, because it relates to your future security. Mind, I want to know
      nothing about your proceedings when to-morrow is over; we settled that
      when we first discussed this matter. I ask no questions, and I make no
      guesses. All I want to do now is to warn you of your legal position after
      your marriage, and to leave you to make what use you please of your
      knowledge, at your own sole discretion. I took a lawyer&rsquo;s opinion on the
      point when I was in London, thinking it might be useful to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is sure to be useful. What did the lawyer say?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To put it plainly, this is what he said. If Mr. Noel Vanstone ever
      discovers that you have knowingly married him under a false name, he can
      apply to the Ecclesiastical Court to have his marriage declared null and
      void. The issue of the application would rest with the judges. But if he
      could prove that he had been intentionally deceived, the legal opinion is
      that his case would be a strong one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Suppose I chose to apply on my side?&rdquo; said Magdalen, eagerly. &ldquo;What
      then?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You might make the application,&rdquo; replied the captain. &ldquo;But remember one
      thing&mdash;you would come into Court with the acknowledgment of your own
      deception. I leave you to imagine what the judges would think of that.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did the lawyer tell you anything else?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One thing besides,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;Whatever the law might do with
      the marriage in the lifetime of both the parties to it&mdash;on the death
      of either one of them, no application made by the survivor would avail;
      and, as to the case of that survivor, the marriage would remain valid. You
      understand? If he dies, or if you die&mdash;and if no application has been
      made to the Court&mdash;he the survivor, or you the survivor, would have
      no power of disputing the marriage. But in the lifetime of both of you, if
      he claimed to have the marriage dissolved, the chances are all in favor of
      his carrying his point.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked at Magdalen with a furtive curiosity as he said those words. She
      turned her head aside, absently tying her watch-chain into a loop and
      untying it again, evidently thinking with the closest attention over what
      he had last said to her. Captain Wragge walked uneasily to the window and
      looked out. The first object that caught his eye was Mr. Noel Vanstone
      approaching from Sea View. He returned instantly to his former place in
      the room, and addressed himself to Magdalen once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here is Mr. Noel Vanstone,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;One last caution before he comes
      in. Be on your guard with him about your age. He put the question to me
      before he got the License. I took the shortest way out of the difficulty,
      and told him you were twenty-one, and he made the declaration accordingly.
      Never mind about <i>me</i>; after to-morrow I am invisible. But, in your
      own interests, don&rsquo;t forget, if the subject turns up, that you were of age
      when you were married. There is nothing more. You are provided with every
      necessary warning that I can give you. Whatever happens in the future,
      remember I have done my best.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He hurried to the door without waiting for an answer, and went out into
      the garden to receive his guest.
    </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone made his appearance at the gate, solemnly carrying his
      bridal offering to North Shingles with both hands. The object in question
      was an ancient casket (one of his father&rsquo;s bargains); inside the casket
      reposed an old-fashioned carbuncle brooch, set in silver (another of his
      father&rsquo;s bargains)&mdash;bridal presents both, possessing the inestimable
      merit of leaving his money undisturbed in his pocket. He shook his head
      portentously when the captain inquired after his health and spirits. He
      had passed a wakeful night; ungovernable apprehensions of Lecount&rsquo;s sudden
      re-appearance had beset him as soon as he found himself alone at Sea View.
      Sea View was redolent of Lecount: Sea View (though built on piles, and the
      strongest house in England) was henceforth odious to him. He had felt this
      all night; he had also felt his responsibilities. There was the lady&rsquo;s
      maid, to begin with. Now he had hired her, he began to think she wouldn&rsquo;t
      do. She might fall sick on his hands; she might have deceived him by a
      false character; she and the landlady of the hotel might have been in
      league together. Horrible! Really horrible to think of. Then there was the
      other responsibility&mdash;perhaps the heavier of the two&mdash;the
      responsibility of deciding where he was to go and spend his honeymoon
      to-morrow. He would have preferred one of his father&rsquo;s empty houses: But
      except at Vauxhall Walk (which he supposed would be objected to), and at
      Aldborough (which was of course out of the question) all the houses were
      let. He would put himself in Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s hands. Where had Mr. Bygrave
      spent his own honeymoon? Given the British Islands to choose from, where
      would Mr. Bygrave pitch his tent, on a careful review of all the
      circumstances?
    </p>
    <p>
      At this point the bridegroom&rsquo;s questions suddenly came to an end, and the
      bridegroom&rsquo;s face exhibited an expression of ungovernable astonishment.
      His judicious friend, whose advice had been at his disposal in every other
      emergency, suddenly turned round on him, in the emergency of the
      honeymoon, and flatly declined discussing the subject.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; said the captain, as Noel Vanstone opened his lips to plead for a
      hearing, &ldquo;you must really excuse me. My point of view in this matter is,
      as usual, a peculiar one. For some time past I have been living in an
      atmosphere of deception, to suit your convenience. That atmosphere, my
      good sir, is getting close; my Moral Being requires ventilation. Settle
      the choice of a locality with my niece, and leave me, at my particular
      request, in total ignorance of the subject. Mrs. Lecount is certain to
      come here on her return from Zurich, and is certain to ask me where you
      are gone. You may think it strange, Mr. Vanstone; but when I tell her I
      don&rsquo;t know, I wish to enjoy the unaccustomed luxury of feeling, for once
      in a way, that I am speaking the truth!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words, he opened the sitting-room door, introduced Noel
      Vanstone to Magdalen&rsquo;s presence, bowed himself out of the room again, and
      set forth alone to while away the rest of the afternoon by taking a walk.
      His face showed plain tokens of anxiety, and his party-colored eyes looked
      hither and thither distrustfully, as he sauntered along the shore. &ldquo;The
      time hangs heavy on our hands,&rdquo; thought the captain. &ldquo;I wish to-morrow was
      come and gone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The day passed and nothing happened; the evening and the night followed,
      placidly and uneventfully. Monday came, a cloudless, lovely day; Monday
      confirmed the captain&rsquo;s assertion that the marriage was a certainty.
      Toward ten o&rsquo;clock, the clerk, ascending the church steps quoted the old
      proverb to the pew-opener, meeting him under the porch: &ldquo;Happy the bride
      on whom the sun shines!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In a quarter of an hour more the wedding-party was in the vestry, and the
      clergyman led the way to the altar. Carefully as the secret of the
      marriage had been kept, the opening of the church in the morning had been
      enough to betray it. A small congregation, almost entirely composed of
      women, were scattered here and there among the pews. Kirke&rsquo;s sister and
      her children were staying with a friend at Aldborough, and Kirke&rsquo;s sister
      was one of the congregation.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the wedding-party entered the church, the haunting terror of Mrs.
      Lecount spread from Noel Vanstone to the captain. For the first few
      minutes, the eyes of both of them looked among the women in the pews with
      the same searching scrutiny, and looked away again with the same sense of
      relief. The clergyman noticed that look, and investigated the License more
      closely than usual. The clerk began to doubt privately whether the old
      proverb about the bride was a proverb to be always depended on. The female
      members of the congregation murmured among themselves at the inexcusable
      disregard of appearances implied in the bride&rsquo;s dress. Kirke&rsquo;s sister
      whispered venomously in her friend&rsquo;s ear, &ldquo;Thank God for to-day for
      Robert&rsquo;s sake.&rdquo; Mrs. Wragge cried silently, with the dread of some
      threatening calamity she knew not what. The one person present who
      remained outwardly undisturbed was Magdalen herself. She stood, with
      tearless resignation, in her place before the altar&mdash;stood, as if all
      the sources of human emotion were frozen up within her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The clergyman opened the Book.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      It was done. The awful words which speak from earth to Heaven were
      pronounced. The children of the two dead brothers&mdash;inheritors of the
      implacable enmity which had parted their parents&mdash;were Man and Wife.
    </p>
    <p>
      From that moment events hurried with a headlong rapidity to the parting
      scene. They were back at the house while the words of the Marriage Service
      seemed still ringing in their ears. Before they had been five minutes
      indoors the carriage drew up at the garden gate. In a minute more the
      opportunity came for which Magdalen and the captain had been on the watch&mdash;the
      opportunity of speaking together in private for the last time. She still
      preserved her icy resignation; she seemed beyond all reach now of the fear
      that had once mastered her, of the remorse that had once tortured her
      soul. With a firm hand she gave him the promised money. With a firm face
      she looked her last at him. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not to blame,&rdquo; he whispered, eagerly; &ldquo;I
      have only done what you asked me.&rdquo; She bowed her head; she bent it toward
      him kindly and let him touch her fore-head with his lips. &ldquo;Take care!&rdquo; he
      said. &ldquo;My last words are&mdash;for God&rsquo;s sake take care when I&rsquo;m gone!&rdquo;
       She turned from him with a smile, and spoke her farewell words to his
      wife. Mrs. Wragge tried hard to face her loss bravely&mdash;the loss of
      the friend whose presence had fallen like light from Heaven over the dim
      pathway of her life. &ldquo;You have been very good to me, my dear; I thank you
      kindly; I thank you with all my heart.&rdquo; She could say no more; she clung
      to Magdalen in a passion of tears, as her mother might have clung to her,
      if her mother had lived to see that horrible day. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m frightened for
      you!&rdquo; cried the poor creature, in a wild, wailing voice. &ldquo;Oh, my darling,
      I&rsquo;m frightened for you!&rdquo; Magdalen desperately drew herself free&mdash;kissed
      her&mdash;and hurried out to the door. The expression of that artless
      gratitude, the cry of that guileless love, shook her as nothing else had
      shaken her that day. It was a refuge to get to the carriage&mdash;a
      refuge, though the man she had married stood there waiting for her at the
      door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Wragge tried to follow her into the garden. But the captain had seen
      Magdalen&rsquo;s face as she ran out, and he steadily held his wife back in the
      passage. From that distance the last farewells were exchanged. As long as
      the carriage was in sight, Magdalen looked back at them; she waved her
      handkerchief as she turned the corner. In a moment more the last thread
      which bound her to them was broken; the familiar companionship of many
      months was a thing of the past already!
    </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge closed the house door on the idlers who were looking in
      from the Parade. He led his wife back into the sitting-room, and spoke to
      her with a forbearance which she had never yet experienced from him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has gone her way,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;and in another hour we shall have gone
      ours. Cry your cry out&mdash;I don&rsquo;t deny she&rsquo;s worth crying for.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Even then&mdash;even when the dread of Magdalen&rsquo;s future was at its
      darkest in his mind&mdash;the ruling habit of the man&rsquo;s life clung to him.
      Mechanically he unlocked his dispatch-box. Mechanically he opened his Book
      of Accounts, and made the closing entry&mdash;the entry of his last
      transaction with Magdalen&mdash;in black and white. &ldquo;By Rec&rsquo;d from Miss
      Vanstone,&rdquo; wrote the captain, with a gloomy brow, &ldquo;Two hundred pounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You won&rsquo;t be angry with me?&rdquo; said Mrs. Wragge, looking timidly at her
      husband through her tears. &ldquo;I want a word of comfort, captain. Oh, do tell
      me, when shall I see her again?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain closed the book, and answered in one inexorable word: &ldquo;Never!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Between eleven and twelve o&rsquo;clock that night Mrs. Lecount drove into
      Zurich.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her brother&rsquo;s house, when she stopped before it, was shut up. With some
      difficulty and delay the servant was aroused. She held up her hands in
      speechless amazement when she opened the door and saw who the visitor was.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is my brother alive?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount, entering the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Alive!&rdquo; echoed the servant. &ldquo;He has gone holiday-making into the country,
      to finish his recovery in the fine fresh air.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The housekeeper staggered back against the wall of the passage. The
      coachman and the servant put her into a chair. Her face was livid, and her
      teeth chattered in her head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Send for my brother&rsquo;s doctor,&rdquo; she said, as soon as she could speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      The doctor came. She handed him a letter before he could say a word.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you write that letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked it over rapidly, and answered her without hesitation,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is your handwriting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is a forgery of my handwriting.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose from the chair with a new strength in her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When does the return mail start for Paris?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In half an hour.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Send instantly and take me a place in it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The servant hesitated, the doctor protested. She turned a deaf ear to them
      both.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Send!&rdquo; she reiterated, &ldquo;or I will go myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They obeyed. The servant went to take the place: the doctor remained and
      held a conversation with Mrs. Lecount. When the half-hour had passed, he
      helped her into her place in the mail, and charged the conductor privately
      to take care of his passenger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has traveled from England without stopping,&rdquo; said the doctor; &ldquo;and
      she is traveling back again without rest. Be careful of her, or she will
      break down under the double journey.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The mail started. Before the first hour of the new day was at an end Mrs.
      Lecount was on her way back to England.
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE FOURTH SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From George Bartram to Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, September 4th, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR NOEL&mdash;Here are two plain questions at starting. In the name
      of all that is mysterious, what are you hiding for? And why is everything
      relating to your marriage kept an impenetrable secret from your oldest
      friends?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have been to Aldborough to try if I could trace you from that place,
      and have come back as wise as I went. I have applied to your lawyer in
      London, and have been told, in reply, that you have forbidden him to
      disclose the place of your retreat to any one without first receiving your
      permission to do so. All I could prevail on him to say was, that he would
      forward any letter which might be sent to his care. I write accordingly,
      and mind this, I expect an answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You may ask, in your ill-tempered way, what business I have to meddle
      with affairs of yours which it is your pleasure to keep private. My dear
      Noel, there is a serious reason for our opening communications with you
      from this house. You don&rsquo;t know what events have taken place at St. Crux
      since you ran away to get married; and though I detest writing letters, I
      must lose an hour&rsquo;s shooting to-day in trying to enlighten you.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the twenty-third of last month, the admiral and I were disturbed over
      our wine after dinner by the announcement that a visitor had unexpectedly
      arrived at St. Crux. Who do you think the visitor was? Mrs. Lecount!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My uncle, with that old-fashioned bachelor gallantry of his which pays
      equal respect to all wearers of petticoats, left the table directly to
      welcome Mrs. Lecount. While I was debating whether I should follow him or
      not, my meditations were suddenly brought to an end by a loud call from
      the admiral. I ran into the morning-room, and there was your unfortunate
      housekeeper on the sofa, with all the women servants about her, more dead
      than alive. She had traveled from England to Zurich, and from Zurich back
      again to England, without stopping; and she looked, seriously and
      literally, at death&rsquo;s door. I immediately agreed with my uncle that the
      first thing to be done was to send for medical help. We dispatched a groom
      on the spot, and, at Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s own request, sent all the servants in
      a body out of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As soon as we were alone, Mrs. Lecount surprised us by a singular
      question. She asked if you had received a letter which she had addressed
      to you before leaving England at this house. When we told her that the
      letter had been forwarded, under cover to your friend Mr. Bygrave, by your
      own particular request, she turned as pale as ashes; and when we added
      that you had left us in company with this same Mr. Bygrave, she clasped
      her hands and stared at us as if she had taken leave of her senses. Her
      next question was, &lsquo;Where is Mr. Noel now?&rsquo; We could only give her one
      reply&mdash;Mr. Noel had not informed us. She looked perfectly
      thunderstruck at that answer. &lsquo;He has gone to his ruin!&rsquo; she said. &lsquo;He has
      gone away in company with the greatest villain in England. I must find
      him! I tell you I must find Mr. Noel! If I don&rsquo;t find him at once, it will
      be too late. He will be married!&rsquo; she burst out quite frantically. &lsquo;On my
      honor and my oath, he will be married!&rsquo; The admiral, incautiously perhaps,
      but with the best intentions, told her you were married already. She gave
      a scream that made the windows ring again and dropped back on the sofa in
      a fainting-fit. The doctor came in the nick of time, and soon brought her
      to. But she was taken ill the same night; she has grown worse and worse
      ever since; and the last medical report is, that the fever from which she
      has been suffering is in a fair way to settle on her brain.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now, my dear Noel, neither my uncle nor I have any wish to intrude
      ourselves on your confidence. We are naturally astonished at the
      extraordinary mystery which hangs over you and your marriage, and we
      cannot be blind to the fact that your housekeeper has, apparently, some
      strong reason of her own for viewing Mrs. Noel Vanstone with an enmity and
      distrust which we are quite ready to believe that lady has done nothing to
      deserve. Whatever strange misunderstanding there may have been in your
      household, is your business (if you choose to keep it to yourself), and
      not ours. All we have any right to do is to tell you what the doctor says.
      His patient has been delirious; he declines to answer for her life if she
      goes on as she is going on now; and he thinks&mdash;finding that she is
      perpetually talking of her master&mdash;that your presence would be useful
      in quieting her, if you could come here at once, and exert your influence
      before it is too late.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you say? Will you emerge from the darkness that surrounds you and
      come to St. Crux? If this was the case of an ordinary servant, I could
      understand your hesitating to leave the delights of your honeymoon for any
      such object as is here proposed to you. But, my dear fellow, Mrs. Lecount
      is not an ordinary servant. You are under obligations to her fidelity and
      attachment in your father&rsquo;s time, as well as in your own; and if you <i>can</i>
      quiet the anxieties which seem to be driving this unfortunate woman mad, I
      really think you ought to come here and do so. Your leaving Mrs. Noel
      Vanstone is of course out of the question. There is no necessity for any
      such hard-hearted proceeding. The admiral desires me to remind you that he
      is your oldest friend living, and that his house is at your wife&rsquo;s
      disposal, as it has always been at yours. In this great rambling-place she
      need dread no near association with the sick-room; and, with all my
      uncle&rsquo;s oddities, I am sure she will not think the offer of his friendship
      an offer to be despised.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have I told you already that I went to Aldborough to try and find a clew
      to your whereabouts? I can&rsquo;t be at the trouble of looking back to see; so,
      if I have told you, I tell you again. The truth is, I made an acquaintance
      at Aldborough of whom you know something&mdash;at least by report.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After applying vainly at Sea View, I went to the hotel to inquire about
      you. The landlady could give me no information; but the moment I mentioned
      your name, she asked if I was related to you; and when I told her I was
      your cousin, she said there was a young lady then at the hotel whose name
      was Vanstone also, who was in great distress about a missing relative, and
      who might prove of some use to me&mdash;or I to her&mdash;if we knew of
      each other&rsquo;s errand at Aldborough. I had not the least idea who she was,
      but I sent in my card at a venture; and in five minutes afterward I found
      myself in the presence of one of the most charming women these eyes ever
      looked on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our first words of explanation informed me that my family name was known
      to her by repute. Who do you think she was? The eldest daughter of my
      uncle and yours&mdash;Andrew Vanstone. I had often heard my poor mother in
      past years speak of her brother Andrew, and I knew of that sad story at
      Combe-Raven. But our families, as you are aware, had always been
      estranged, and I had never seen my charming cousin before. She has the
      dark eyes and hair, and the gentle, retiring manners that I always admire
      in a woman. I don&rsquo;t want to renew our old disagreement about your father&rsquo;s
      conduct to those two sisters, or to deny that his brother Andrew may have
      behaved badly to him; I am willing to admit that the high moral position
      he took in the matter is quite unassailable by such a miserable sinner as
      I am; and I will not dispute that my own spendthrift habits incapacitate
      me from offering any opinion on the conduct of other people&rsquo;s pecuniary
      affairs. But, with all these allowances and drawbacks, I can tell you one
      thing, Noel. If you ever see the elder Miss Vanstone, I venture to
      prophesy that, for the first time in your life, you will doubt the
      propriety of following your father&rsquo;s example.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She told me her little story, poor thing, most simply and unaffectedly.
      She is now occupying her second situation as a governess&mdash;and, as
      usual, I, who know everybody, know the family. They are friends of my
      uncle&rsquo;s, whom he has lost sight of latterly&mdash;the Tyrrels of Portland
      Place&mdash;and they treat Miss Vanstone with as much kindness and
      consideration as if she was a member of the family. One of their old
      servants accompanied her to Aldborough, her object in traveling to that
      place being what the landlady of the hotel had stated it to be. The family
      reverses have, it seems, had a serious effect on Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s younger
      sister, who has left her friends and who has been missing from home for
      some time. She had been last heard of at Aldborough; and her elder sister,
      on her return from the Continent with the Tyrrels, had instantly set out
      to make inquiries at that place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This was all Miss Vanstone told me. She asked whether you had seen
      anything of her sister, or whether Mrs. Lecount knew anything of her
      sister&mdash;I suppose because she was aware you had been at Aldborough.
      Of course I could tell her nothing. She entered into no details on the
      subject, and I could not presume to ask her for any. All I did was to set
      to work with might and main to assist her inquiries. The attempt was an
      utter failure; nobody could give us any information. We tried personal
      description of course; and strange to say, the only young lady formerly
      staying at Aldborough who answered the description was, of all the people
      in the world, the lady you have married! If she had not had an uncle and
      aunt (both of whom have left the place), I should have begun to suspect
      that you had married your cousin without knowing it! Is this the clew to
      the mystery? Don&rsquo;t be angry; I must have my little joke, and I can&rsquo;t help
      writing as carelessly as I talk. The end of it was, our inquiries were all
      baffled, and I traveled back with Miss Vanstone and her attendant as far
      as our station here. I think I shall call on the Tyrrels when I am next in
      London. I have certainly treated that family with the most inexcusable
      neglect.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here I am at the end of my third sheet of note-paper! I don&rsquo;t often take
      the pen in hand; but when I do, you will agree with me that I am in no
      hurry to lay it aside again. Treat the rest of my letter as you like, but
      consider what I have told you about Mrs. Lecount, and remember that time
      is of consequence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ever yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;GEORGE BARTRAM.&rdquo; II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah Vanstone to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Portland Place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;More sorrow, more disappointment! I have just
      returned from Aldborough, without making any discovery. Magdalen is still
      lost to us.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I cannot attribute this new overthrow of my hopes to any want of
      perseverance or penetration in making the necessary inquiries. My
      inexperience in such matters was most kindly and unexpectedly assisted by
      Mr. George Bartram. By a strange coincidence, he happened to be at
      Aldborough, inquiring after Mr. Noel Vanstone, at the very time when I was
      there inquiring after Magdalen. He sent in his card, and knowing, when I
      looked at the name, that he was my cousin&mdash;if I may call him so&mdash;I
      thought there would be no impropriety in my seeing him and asking his
      advice. I abstained from entering into particulars for Magdalen&rsquo;s sake,
      and I made no allusion to that letter of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s which you answered
      for me. I only told him Magdalen was missing, and had been last heard of
      at Aldborough. The kindness which he showed in devoting himself to my
      assistance exceeds all description. He treated me, in my forlorn
      situation, with a delicacy and respect which I shall remember gratefully
      long after he has himself perhaps forgotten our meeting altogether. He is
      quite young&mdash;not more than thirty, I should think. In face and
      figure, he reminded me a little of the portrait of my father at
      Combe-Raven&mdash;I mean the portrait in the dining-room, of my father
      when he was a young man.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Useless as our inquiries were, there is one result of them which has left
      a very strange and shocking impression on my mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It appears that Mr. Noel Vanstone has lately married, under mysterious
      circumstances, a young lady whom he met with at Aldborough, named Bygrave.
      He has gone away with his wife, telling nobody but his lawyer where he has
      gone to. This I heard from Mr. George Bartram, who was endeavoring to
      trace him, for the purpose of communicating the news of his housekeeper&rsquo;s
      serious illness&mdash;the housekeeper being the same Mrs. Lecount whose
      letter you answered. So far, you may say, there is nothing which need
      particularly interest either of us. But I think you will be as much
      surprised as I was when I tell you that the description given by the
      people at Aldborough of Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s appearance is most startlingly and
      unaccountably like the description of Magdalen&rsquo;s appearance. This
      discovery, taken in connection with all the circumstances we know of, has
      had an effect on my mind which I cannot describe to you&mdash;which I dare
      not realize to myself. Pray come and see me! I have never felt so wretched
      about Magdalen as I feel now. Suspense must have weakened my nerves in
      some strange way. I feel superstitious about the slightest things. This
      accidental resemblance of a total stranger to Magdalen fills me every now
      and then with the most horrible misgivings&mdash;merely because Mr. Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s name happens to be mixed up with it. Once more, pray come to
      me; I have so much to say to you that I cannot, and dare not, say in
      writing.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Gratefully and affectionately yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH.&rdquo; III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. John Loscombe (Solicitor) to George Bartram, Esq.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn, London, September 6th, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your note, inclosing a
      letter addressed to my client, Mr. Noel Vanstone, and requesting that I
      will forward the same to Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s present address.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Since I last had the pleasure of communicating with you on this subject,
      my position toward my client is entirely altered. Three days ago I
      received a letter from him, which stated his intention of changing his
      place of residence on the next day then ensuing, but which left me
      entirely in ignorance on the subject of the locality to which it was his
      intention to remove. I have not heard from him since; and, as he had
      previously drawn on me for a larger sum of money than usual, there would
      be no present necessity for his writing to me again&mdash;assuming that it
      is his wish to keep his place of residence concealed from every one,
      myself included.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under these circumstances, I think it right to return you your letter,
      with the assurance that I will let you know, if I happen to be again
      placed in a position to forward it to its destination.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your obedient servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah Vanstone to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Portland Place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;Forget the letter I wrote to you yesterday, and
      all the gloomy forebodings that it contains. This morning&rsquo;s post has
      brought new life to me. I have just received a letter, addressed to me at
      your house, and forwarded here, in your absence from home yesterday, by
      your sister. Can you guess who the writer is?&mdash;Magdalen!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The letter is very short; it seems to have been written in a hurry. She
      says she has been dreaming of me for some nights past, and the dreams have
      made her fear that her long silence has caused me more distress on her
      account than she is worth. She writes, therefore, to assure me that she is
      safe and well&mdash;that she hopes to see me before long&mdash;and that
      she has something to tell me, when we meet, which will try my sisterly
      love for her as nothing has tried it yet. The letter is not dated; but the
      postmark is &lsquo;Allonby,&rsquo; which I have found, on referring to the Gazetteer,
      to be a little sea-side place in Cumberland. There is no hope of my being
      able to write back, for Magdalen expressly says that she is on the eve of
      departure from her present residence, and that she is not at liberty to
      say where she is going to next, or to leave instructions for forwarding
      any letters after her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In happier times I should have thought this letter very far from being a
      satisfactory one, and I should have been seriously alarmed by that
      allusion to a future confidence on her part which will try my love for her
      as nothing has tried it yet. But after all the suspense I have suffered,
      the happiness of seeing her handwriting again seems to fill my heart and
      to keep all other feelings out of it. I don&rsquo;t send you her letter, because
      I know you are coming to me soon, and I want to have the pleasure of
      seeing you read it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ever affectionately yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P.S.&mdash;Mr. George Bartram called on Mrs. Tyrrel to-day. He insisted
      on being introduced to the children. When he was gone, Mrs. Tyrrel laughed
      in her good-humored way, and said that his anxiety to see the children
      looked, to her mind, very much like an anxiety to see <i>me</i>. You may
      imagine how my spirits are improved when I can occupy my pen in writing
      such nonsense as this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Lecount to Mr. de Bleriot, General Agent, London.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, October 23d, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;I have been long in thanking you for the kind letter which
      promises me your assistance, in friendly remembrance of the commercial
      relations formerly existing between my brother and yourself. The truth is,
      I have over-taxed my strength on my recovery from a long and dangerous
      illness; and for the last ten days I have been suffering under a relapse.
      I am now better again, and able to enter on the business which you so
      kindly offer to undertake for me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The person whose present place of abode it is of the utmost importance to
      me to discover is Mr. Noel Vanstone. I have lived, for many years past, in
      this gentleman&rsquo;s service as house-keeper; and not having received my
      formal dismissal, I consider myself in his service still. During my
      absence on the Continent he was privately married at Aldborough, in
      Suffolk, on the eighteenth of August last. He left Aldborough the same
      day, taking his wife with him to some place of retreat which was kept a
      secret from everybody except his lawyer, Mr. Loscombe, of Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn.
      After a short time he again removed, on the 4th of September, without
      informing Mr. Loscombe, on this occasion, of his new place of abode. From
      that date to this the lawyer has remained (or has pretended to remain) in
      total ignorance of where he now is. Application has been made to Mr.
      Loscombe, under the circumstances, to mention what that former place of
      residence was, of which Mr. Vanstone is known to have informed him. Mr.
      Loscombe has declined acceding to this request, for want of formal
      permission to disclose his client&rsquo;s proceedings after leaving Aldborough.
      I have all these latter particulars from Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s correspondent&mdash;the
      nephew of the gentleman who owns this house, and whose charity has given
      me an asylum, during the heavy affliction of my sickness, under his own
      roof.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I believe the reasons which have induced Mr. Noel Vanstone to keep
      himself and his wife in hiding are reasons which relate entirely to
      myself. In the first place, he is aware that the circumstances under
      which he has married are such as to give me the right of regarding him
      with a just indignation. In the second place, he knows that my faithful
      services, rendered through a period of twenty years, to his father and to
      himself, forbid him, in common decency, to cast me out helpless on the
      world without a provision for the end of my life. He is the meanest of
      living men, and his wife is the vilest of living women. As long as he can
      avoid fulfilling his obligations to me, he will; and his wife&rsquo;s
      encouragement may be trusted to fortify him in his ingratitude.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My object in determining to find him out is briefly this. His marriage
      has exposed him to consequences which a man of ten times his courage could
      not face without shrinking. Of those consequences he knows nothing. His
      wife knows, and keeps him in ignorance. I know, and can enlighten him. His
      security from the danger that threatens him is in my hands alone; and he
      shall pay the price of his rescue to the last farthing of the debt that
      justice claims for me as my due&mdash;no more, and no less.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have now laid my mind before you, as you told me, without reserve. You
      know why I want to find this man, and what I mean to do when I find him. I
      leave it to your sympathy for me to answer the serious question that
      remains: How is the discovery to be made? If a first trace of them can be
      found, after their departure from Aldborough, I believe careful inquiry
      will suffice for the rest. The personal appearance of the wife, and the
      extraordinary contrast between her husband and herself, are certain to be
      remarked, and remembered, by every stranger who sees them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you favor me with your answer, please address it to &lsquo;Care of Admiral
      Bartram, St. Crux-in the-Marsh, near Ossory, Essex&rsquo;. Your much obliged
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VIRGINIE LECOUNT.&rdquo; VI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. de Bleriot to Mrs. Lecount.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dark&rsquo;s Buildings, Kingsland,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;October 25th, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Private and Confidential.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;I hasten to reply to your favor of Saturday&rsquo;s date.
      Circumstances have enabled me to forward your interests, by consulting a
      friend of mine possessing great experience in the management of private
      inquiries of all sorts. I have placed your case before him (without
      mentioning names); and I am happy to inform you that my views and his
      views of the proper course to take agree in every particular.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Both myself and friend, then, are of opinion that little or nothing can
      be done toward tracing the parties you mention, until the place of their
      temporary residence after they left Aldborough has been discovered first.
      If this can be done, the sooner it is done the better. Judging from your
      letter, some weeks must have passed since the lawyer received his
      information that they had shifted their quarters. As they are both
      remarkable-looking people, the strangers who may have assisted them on
      their travels have probably not forgotten them yet. Nevertheless,
      expedition is desirable.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The question for you to consider is, whether they may not possibly have
      communicated the address of which we stand in need to some other person
      besides the lawyer. The husband may have written to members of his family,
      or the wife may have written to members of her family. Both myself and
      friend are of opinion that the latter chance is the likelier of the two.
      If you have any means of access in the direction of the wife&rsquo;s family, we
      strongly recommend you to make use of them. If not, please supply us with
      the names of any of her near relations or intimate female friends whom you
      know, and we will endeavor to get access for you.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In any case, we request you will at once favor us with the most exact
      personal description that can be written of both the parties. We may
      require your assistance, in this important particular, at five minutes&rsquo;
      notice. Favor us, therefore, with the description by return of post. In
      the meantime, we will endeavor to ascertain on our side whether any
      information is to be privately obtained at Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s office. The
      lawyer himself is probably altogether beyond our reach. But if any one of
      his clerks can be advantageously treated with on such terms as may not
      overtax your pecuniary resources, accept my assurance that the opportunity
      shall be made the most of by, dear madam, your faithful servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ALFRED DE BLERIOT.&rdquo; VII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Pendril to Norah Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serle Street, October 27th. 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR MISS VANSTONE&mdash;A lady named Lecount (formerly attached to
      Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s service in the capacity of housekeeper) has called at
      my office this morning, and has asked me to furnish her with your address.
      I have begged her to excuse my immediate compliance with her request, and
      to favor me with a call to-morrow morning, when I shall be prepared to
      meet her with a definite answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My hesitation in this matter does not proceed from any distrust of Mrs.
      Lecount personally, for I know nothing whatever to her prejudice. But in
      making her request to me, she stated that the object of the desired
      interview was to speak to you privately on the subject of your sister.
      Forgive me for acknowledging that I determined to withhold the address as
      soon as I heard this. You will make allowances for your old friend, and
      your sincere well-wisher? You will not take it amiss if I express my
      strong disapproval of your allowing yourself, on any pretense whatever, to
      be mixed up for the future with your sister&rsquo;s proceedings.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will not distress you by saying more than this. But I feel too deep an
      interest in your welfare, and too sincere an admiration of the patience
      with which you have borne all your trials, to say less.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I cannot prevail on you to follow my advice, you have only to say so,
      and Mrs. Lecount shall have your address to-morrow. In this case (which I
      cannot contemplate without the greatest unwillingness), let me at least
      recommend you to stipulate that Miss Garth shall be present at the
      interview. In any matter with which your sister is concerned, you may want
      an old friend&rsquo;s advice, and an old friend&rsquo;s protection against your own
      generous impulses. If I could have helped you in this way, I would; but
      Mrs. Lecount gave me indirectly to understand that the subject to be
      discussed was of too delicate a nature to permit of my presence. Whatever
      this objection may be really worth, it cannot apply to Miss Garth, who has
      brought you both up from childhood. I say, again, therefore, if you see
      Mrs. Lecount, see her in Miss Garth&rsquo;s company.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Always most truly yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;WILLIAM PENDRIL.&rdquo; VIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Norah Vanstone to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Portland Place, Wednesday.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MR. PENDRIL&mdash;Pray don&rsquo;t think I am ungrateful for your
      kindness. Indeed, indeed I am not! But I must see Mrs. Lecount. You were
      not aware when you wrote to me that I had received a few lines from
      Magdalen&mdash;not telling me where she is, but holding out the hope of
      our meeting before long. Perhaps Mrs. Lecount may have something to say to
      me on this very subject. Even if it should not be so, my sister&mdash;do
      what she may&mdash;is still my sister. I can&rsquo;t desert her; I can&rsquo;t turn my
      back on any one who comes to me in her name. You know, dear Mr. Pendril, I
      have always been obstinate on this subject, and you have always borne with
      me. Let me owe another obligation to you which I can never return, and
      bear with me still!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Need I say that I willingly accept that part of your advice which refers
      to Miss Garth? I have already written to beg that she will come here at
      four to-morrow afternoon. When you see Mrs. Lecount, please inform her
      that Miss Garth will be with me, and that she will find us both ready to
      receive her here to-morrow at four o&rsquo;clock. Gratefully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH VANSTONE.&rdquo; IX.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. de Bleriot to Mrs. Lecount.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Private.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dark&rsquo;s Buildings, October 28th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;One of Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s clerks has proved amenable to a
      small pecuniary consideration, and has mentioned a circumstance which it
      may be of some importance to you to know.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nearly a month since, accident gave the clerk in question an opportunity
      of looking into one of the documents on his master&rsquo;s table, which had
      attracted his attention from a slight peculiar ity in the form and color
      of the paper. He had only time, during Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s momentary absence,
      to satisfy his curiosity by looking at the beginning of the document and
      at the end. At the beginning he saw the customary form used in making a
      will; at the end he discovered the signature of Mr. Noel Vanstone, with
      the names of two attesting witnesses, and the date (of which he is quite
      certain)&mdash;<i>the thirtieth of September last.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Before the clerk had time to make any further investigations, his master
      returned, sorted the papers on the table, and carefully locked up the will
      in the strong box devoted to the custody of Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s documents.
      It has been ascertained that, at the close of September, Mr. Loscombe was
      absent from the office. If he was then employed in superintending the
      execution of his client&rsquo;s will&mdash;which is quite possible&mdash;it
      follows clearly that he was in the secret of Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s address after
      the removal of the 4th of September; and if you can do nothing on your
      side, it may be desirable to have the lawyer watched on ours. In any case,
      it is certainly ascertained that Mr. Noel Vanstone has made his will since
      his marriage. I leave you to draw your own conclusions from that fact, and
      remain, in the hope of hearing from you shortly,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your faithful servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ALFRED DE BLERIOT.&rdquo; X.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Miss Garth to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Portland Place, October 28th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR SIR&mdash;Mrs. Lecount has just left us. If it was not too late
      to wish, I should wish, from the bottom of my heart, that Norah had taken
      your advice, and had refused to see her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I write in such distress of mind that I cannot hope to give you a clear
      and complete account of the interview. I can only tell you briefly what
      Mrs. Lecount has done, and what our situation now is. The rest must be
      left until I am more composed, and until I can speak to you personally.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will remember my informing you of the letter which Mrs. Lecount
      addressed to Norah from Aldborough, and which I answered for her in her
      absence. When Mrs. Lecount made her appearance to-day, her first words
      announced to us that she had come to renew the subject. As well as I can
      remember it, this is what she said, addressing herself to Norah:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;I wrote to you on the subject of your sister, Miss Vanstone, some little
      time since, and Miss Garth was so good as to answer the letter. What I
      feared at that time has come true. Your sister has defied all my efforts
      to check her; she has disappeared in company with my master, Mr. Noel
      Vanstone; and she is now in a position of danger which may lead to her
      disgrace and ruin at a moment&rsquo;s notice. It is my interest to recover my
      master, it is your interest to save your sister. Tell me&mdash;for time is
      precious&mdash;have you any news of her?&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah answered, as well as her terror and distress would allow her, &lsquo;I
      have had a letter, but there was no address on it.&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Lecount asked, &lsquo;Was there no postmark on the envelope?&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah said, &lsquo;Yes; Allonby.&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;Allonby is better than nothing,&rsquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &lsquo;Allonby may help
      you to trace her. Where is Allonby?&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Norah told her. It all passed in a minute. I had been too much confused
      and startled to interfere before, but I composed myself sufficiently to
      interfere now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;You have entered into no particulars,&rsquo; I said. &lsquo;You have only frightened
      us&mdash;you have told us nothing.&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;&lsquo;You shall hear the particulars, ma&rsquo;am,&rsquo; said Mrs. Lecount; &lsquo;and you and
      Miss Vanstone shall judge for yourselves if I have frightened you without
      a cause.&rsquo;
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Upon this, she entered at once upon a long narrative, which I cannot&mdash;I
      might almost say, which I dare not&mdash;repeat. You will understand the
      horror we both felt when I tell you the end. If Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s statement
      is to be relied on, Magdalen has carried her mad resolution of recovering
      her father&rsquo;s fortune to the last and most desperate extremity&mdash;she
      has married Michael Vanstone&rsquo;s son under a false name. Her husband is at
      this moment still persuaded that her maiden name was Bygrave, and that she
      is really the niece of a scoundrel who assisted her imposture, and whom I
      recognize, by the description of him, to have been Captain Wragge.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I spare you Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s cool avowal, when she rose to leave us, of her
      own mercenary motives in wishing to discover her master and to enlighten
      him. I spare you the hints she dropped of Magdalen&rsquo;s purpose in
      contracting this infamous marriage. The one aim and object of my letter is
      to implore you to assist me in quieting Norah&rsquo;s anguish of mind. The shock
      she has received at hearing this news of her sister is not the worst
      result of what has happened. She has persuaded herself that the answers
      she innocently gave, in her distress, to Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s questions on the
      subject of her letter&mdash;the answers wrung from her under the sudden
      pressure of confusion and alarm&mdash;may be used to Magdalen&rsquo;s prejudice
      by the woman who purposely startled her into giving the information. I can
      only prevent her from taking some desperate step on her side&mdash;some
      step by which she may forfeit the friendship and protection of the
      excellent people with whom she is now living&mdash;by reminding her that
      if Mrs. Lecount traces her master by means of the postmark on the letter,
      we may trace Magdalen at the same time, and by the same means. Whatever
      objection you may personally feel to renewing the efforts for the rescue
      of this miserable girl which failed so lamentably at York, I entreat you,
      for Norah&rsquo;s sake, to take the same steps now which we took then. Send me
      the only assurance which will quiet her&mdash;the assurance, under your
      own hand, that the search on our side has begun. If you will do this, you
      may trust me, when the time comes, to stand between these two sisters, and
      to defend Norah&rsquo;s peace, character, and future prosperity at any price.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Most sincerely yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH.&rdquo; XI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Lecount to Mr. de Bleriot.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;October 28th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;I have found the trace you wanted. Mrs. Noel Vanstone has
      written to her sister. The letter contains no address, but the postmark is
      Allonby, in Cumberland. From Allonby, therefore, the inquiries must begin.
      You have already in your possession the personal description of both
      husband and wife. I urgently recommend you not to lose one unnecessary
      moment. If it is possible to send to Cumberland immediately on receipt of
      this letter, I beg you will do so.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have another word to say before I close my note&mdash;a word about the
      discovery in Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s office.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is no surprise to me to hear that Mr. Noel Vanstone has made his will
      since his marriage, and I am at no loss to guess in whose favor the will
      is made. If I succeed in finding my master, let that person get the money
      if that person can. A course to follow in this matter has presented itself
      to my mind since I received your letter, but my ignorance of details of
      business and intricacies of law leaves me still uncertain whether my idea
      is capable of ready and certain execution. I know no professional person
      whom I can trust in this delicate and dangerous business. Is your large
      experience in other matters large enough to help me in this? I will call
      at your office to-morrow at two o&rsquo;clock, for the purpose of consulting you
      on the subject. It is of the greatest importance, when I next see Mr. Noel
      Vanstone, that he should find me thoroughly prepared beforehand in this
      matter of the will. Your much obliged servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VIRGINIE LECOUNT.&rdquo; XII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Pendril to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serle Street, October 29th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;I have only a moment to assure you of the sorrow
      with which I have read your letter. The circumstances under which you urge
      your request, and the reasons you give for making it, are sufficient to
      silence any objection I might otherwise feel to the course you propose. A
      trustworthy person, whom I have myself instructed, will start for Allonby
      to-day, and as soon as I receive any news from him, you shall hear of it
      by special messenger. Tell Miss Vanstone this, and pray add the sincere
      expression of my sympathy and regard.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;WILLIAM PENDRIL.&rdquo; XIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. de Bleriot to Mrs. Lecount.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dark&rsquo;s Buildings. November 1st.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;I have the pleasure of informing you that the discovery
      has been made with far less trouble than I had anticipated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. and Mrs. Noel Vanstone have been traced across the Solway Firth to
      Dumfries, and thence to a cottage a few miles from the town, on the banks
      of the Nith. The exact address is Baliol Cottage, near Dumfries.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This information, though easily hunted up, has nevertheless been obtained
      under rather singular circumstances.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Before leaving Allonby, the persons in my employ discovered, to their
      surprise, that a stranger was in the place pursuing the same inquiry as
      themselves. In the absence of any instructions preparing them for such an
      occurrence as this, they took their own view of the circumstance.
      Considering the man as an intruder on their business, whose success might
      deprive them of the credit and reward of making the discovery, they took
      advantage of their superiority in numbers, and of their being first in the
      field, and carefully misled the stranger before they ventured any further
      with their own investigations. I am in possession of the details of their
      proceedings, with which I need not trouble you. The end is, that this
      person, whoever he may be, was cleverly turned back southward on a false
      scent before the men in my employment crossed the Firth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mention the circumstance, as you may be better able than I am to find a
      clew to it, and as it may possibly be of a nature to induce you to hasten
      your journey.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your faithful servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ALFRED DE BLERIOT.&rdquo; XIV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Lecount to Mr. de Bleriot.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;November 1st.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;One line to say that your letter has just reached me at my
      lodging in London. I think I know who sent the strange man to inquire at
      Allonby. It matters little. Before he finds out his mistake, I shall be at
      Dumfries. My luggage is packed, and I start for the North by the next
      train.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your deeply obliged
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;VIRGINIE LECOUNT.&rdquo; 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE FIFTH SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      BALIOL COTTAGE, DUMFRIES
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      TOWARD eleven o&rsquo;clock, on the morning of the third of November, the
      breakfast-table at Baliol Cottage presented that essentially comfortless
      appearance which is caused by a meal in a state of transition&mdash;that
      is to say, by a meal prepared for two persons, which has been already
      eaten by one, and which has not yet been approached by the other. It must
      be a hardy appetite which can contemplate without a momentary
      discouragement the battered egg-shell, the fish half stripped to a
      skeleton, the crumbs in the plate, and the dregs in the cup. There is
      surely a wise submission to those weaknesses in human nature which must be
      respected and not reproved, in the sympathizing rapidity with which
      servants in places of public refreshment clear away all signs of the
      customer in the past, from the eyes of the customer in the present.
      Although his predecessor may have been the wife of his bosom or the child
      of his loins, no man can find himself confronted at table by the traces of
      a vanished eater, without a passing sense of injury in connection with the
      idea of his own meal.
    </p>
    <p>
      Some such impression as this found its way into the mind of Mr. Noel
      Vanstone when he entered the lonely breakfast-parlor at Baliol Cottage
      shortly after eleven o&rsquo;clock. He looked at the table with a frown, and
      rang the bell with an expression of disgust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Clear away this mess,&rdquo; he said, when the servant appeared. &ldquo;Has your
      mistress gone?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir&mdash;nearly an hour ago.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is Louisa downstairs?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you have put the table right, send Louisa up to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He walked away to the window. The momentary irritation passed away from
      his face; but it left an expression there which remained&mdash;an
      expression of pining discontent. Personally, his marriage had altered him
      for the worse. His wizen little cheeks were beginning to shrink into
      hollows, his frail little figure had already contracted a slight stoop.
      The former delicacy of his complexion had gone&mdash;the sickly paleness
      of it was all that remained. His thin flaxen mustaches were no longer
      pragmatically waxed and twisted into a curl: their weak feathery ends hung
      meekly pendent over the querulous corners of his mouth. If the ten or
      twelve weeks since his marriage had been counted by his locks, they might
      have reckoned as ten or twelve years. He stood at the window mechanically
      picking leaves from a pot of heath placed in front of it, and drearily
      humming the forlorn fragment of a tune.
    </p>
    <p>
      The prospect from the window overlooked the course of the Nith at a bend
      of the river a few miles above Dumfries. Here and there, through wintry
      gaps in the wooded bank, broad tracts of the level cultivated valley met
      the eye. Boats passed on the river, and carts plodded along the high-road
      on their way to Dumfries. The sky was clear; the November sun shone as
      pleasantly as if the year had been younger by two good months; and the
      view, noted in Scotland for its bright and peaceful charm, was presented
      at the best which its wintry aspect could assume. If it had been hidden in
      mist or drenched with rain, Mr. Noel Vanstone would, to all appearance,
      have found it as attractive as he found it now. He waited at the window
      until he heard Louisa&rsquo;s knock at the door, then turned back sullenly to
      the breakfast-table and told her to come in.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Make the tea,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I know nothing about it. I&rsquo;m left here
      neglected. Nobody helps me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The discreet Louisa silently and submissively obeyed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did your mistress leave any message for me,&rdquo; he asked, &ldquo;before she went
      away?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No message in particular, sir. My mistress only said she should be too
      late if she waited breakfast any longer.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did she say nothing else?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She told me at the carriage door, sir, that she would most likely be back
      in a week.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was she in good spirits at the carriage door?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, sir. I thought my mistress seemed very anxious and uneasy. Is there
      anything more I can do, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. Wait a minute.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He proceeded discontentedly with his breakfast. Louisa waited resignedly
      at the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think your mistress has been in bad spirits lately,&rdquo; he resumed, with a
      sudden outbreak of petulance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My mistress has not been very cheerful, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you mean by not very cheerful? Do you mean to prevaricate? Am I
      nobody in the house? Am I to be kept in the dark about everything? Is your
      mistress to go away on her own affairs, and leave me at home like a child&mdash;and
      am I not even to ask a question about her? Am I to be prevaricated with by
      a servant? I won&rsquo;t be prevaricated with! Not very cheerful? What do you
      mean by not very cheerful?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I only meant that my mistress was not in good spirits, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why couldn&rsquo;t you say it, then? Don&rsquo;t you know the value of words? The
      most dreadful consequences sometimes happen from not knowing the value of
      words. Did your mistress tell you she was going to London?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What did you think when your mistress told you she was going to London?
      Did you think it odd she was going without me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I did not presume to think it odd, sir.&mdash;Is there anything more I
      can do for you, if you please, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What sort of a morning is it out? Is it warm? Is the sun on the garden?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you seen the sun yourself on the garden?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Get me my great-coat; I&rsquo;ll take a little turn. Has the man brushed it?
      Did you see the man brush it yourself? What do you mean by saying he has
      brushed it, when you didn&rsquo;t see him? Let me look at the tails. If there&rsquo;s
      a speck of dust on the tails, I&rsquo;ll turn the man off!&mdash;Help me on with
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa helped him on with his coat, and gave him his hat. He went out
      irritably. The coat was a large one (it had belonged to his father); the
      hat was a large one (it was a misfit purchased as a bargain by himself).
      He was submerged in his hat and coat; he looked singularly small, and
      frail, and miserable, as he slowly wended his way, in the wintry sunlight,
      down the garden walk. The path sloped gently from the back of the house to
      the water side, from which it was parted by a low wooden fence. After
      pacing backward and forward slowly for some little time, he stopped at the
      lower extremity of the garden, and, leaning on the fence, looked down
      listlessly at the smooth flow of the river.
    </p>
    <p>
      His thoughts still ran on the subject of his first fretful question to
      Louisa&mdash;he was still brooding over the circumstances under which his
      wife had left the cottage that morning, and over the want of consideration
      toward himself implied in the manner of her departure. The longer he
      thought of his grievance, the more acutely he resented it. He was capable
      of great tenderness of feeling where any injury to his sense of his own
      importance was concerned. His head drooped little by little on his arms,
      as they rested on the fence, and, in the deep sincerity of his
      mortification, he sighed bitterly.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sigh was answered by a voice close at his side.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were happier with <i>me</i>, sir,&rdquo; said the voice, in accents of
      tender regret.
    </p>
    <p>
      He looked up with a scream&mdash;literally, with a scream&mdash;and
      confronted Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      Was it the specter of the woman, or the woman herself? Her hair was white;
      her face had fallen away; her eyes looked out large, bright, and haggard
      over her hollow cheeks. She was withered and old. Her dress hung loose
      round her wasted figure; not a trace of its buxom autumnal beauty
      remained. The quietly impenetrable resolution, the smoothly insinuating
      voice&mdash;these were the only relics of the past which sickness and
      suffering had left in Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Compose yourself, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, gently. &ldquo;You have no cause to be
      alarmed at seeing me. Your servant, when I inquired, said you were in the
      garden, and I came here to find you. I have traced you out, sir, with no
      resentment against yourself, with no wish to distress you by so much as
      the shadow of a reproach. I come here on what has been, and is still, the
      business of my life&mdash;your service.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He recovered himself a little, but he was still incapable of speech. He
      held fast by the fence, and stared at her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Try to possess your mind, sir, of what I say,&rdquo; proceeded Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I
      have come here not as your enemy, but as your friend. I have been tried by
      sickness, I have been tried by distress. Nothing remains of me but my
      heart. My heart forgives you; my heart, in your sore need&mdash;need which
      you have yet to feel-places me at your service. Take my arm, Mr. Noel. A
      little turn in the sun will help you to recover yourself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She put his hand through her arm and marched him slowly up the garden
      walk. Before she had been five minutes in his company, she had resumed
      full possession of him in her own right.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Now down again, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Gently down again, in this fine
      sunlight. I have much to say to you, sir, which you never expected to hear
      from me. Let me ask a little domestic question first. They told me at the
      house door Mrs. Noel Vanstone was gone away on a journey. Has she gone for
      long?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her master&rsquo;s hand trembled on her arm as she put that question. Instead of
      answering it, he tried faintly to plead for himself. The first words that
      escaped him were prompted by his first returning sense&mdash;the sense
      that his housekeeper had taken him into custody. He tried to make his
      peace with Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I always meant to do something for you,&rdquo; he said, coaxingly. &ldquo;You would
      have heard from me before long. Upon my word and honor, Lecount, you would
      have heard from me before long!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t doubt it, sir,&rdquo; replied Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;But for the present, never
      mind about Me. You and your interests first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How did you come here?&rdquo; he asked, looking at her in astonishment. &ldquo;How
      came you to find me out?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is a long story, sir; I will tell it you some other time. Let it be
      enough to say now that I <i>have</i> found you. Will Mrs. Noel be back
      again at the house to-day? A little louder, sir; I can hardly hear you.
      So! so! Not back again for a week! And where has she gone? To London, did
      you say? And what for?&mdash;I am not inquisitive, Mr. Noel; I am asking
      serious questions, under serious necessity. Why has your wife left you
      here, and gone to London by herself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They were down at the fence again as she made that last inquiry, and they
      waited, leaning against it, while Noel Vanstone answered. Her reiterated
      assurances that she bore him no malice were producing their effect; he was
      beginning to recover himself. The old helpless habit of addressing all his
      complaints to his housekeeper was returning already with the re-appearance
      of Mrs. Lecount&mdash;returning insidiously, in company with that
      besetting anxiety to talk about his grievances, which had got the better
      of him at the breakfast-table, and which had shown the wound inflicted on
      his vanity to his wife&rsquo;s maid.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t answer for Mrs. Noel Vanstone,&rdquo; he said, spitefully. &ldquo;Mrs. Noel
      Vanstone has not treated me with the consideration which is my due. She
      has taken my permission for granted, and she has only thought proper to
      tell me that the object of her journey is to see her friends in London.
      She went away this morning without bidding me good-by. She takes her own
      way as if I was nobody; she treats me like a child. You may not believe
      it, Lecount, but I don&rsquo;t even know who her friends are. I am left quite in
      the dark; I am left to guess for myself that her friends in London are her
      uncle and aunt.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount privately considered the question by the help of her own
      knowledge obtained in London. She soon reached the obvious conclusion.
      After writing to her sister in the first instance, Magdalen had now, in
      all probability, followed the letter in person. There was little doubt
      that the friends she had gone to visit in London were her sister and Miss
      Garth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not her uncle and aunt, sir,&rdquo; resumed Mrs. Lecount, composedly. &ldquo;A secret
      for your private ear! She has no uncle and aunt. Another little turn
      before I explain myself&mdash;another little turn to compose your
      spirits.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She took him into custody once more, and marched him back toward the
      house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Noel!&rdquo; she said, suddenly stopping in the middle of the walk. &ldquo;Do you
      know what was the worst mischief you ever did yourself in your life? I
      will tell you. That worst mischief was sending me to Zurich.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His hand began to tremble on her arm once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t do it!&rdquo; he cried piteously. &ldquo;It was all Mr. Bygrave.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You acknowledge, sir, that Mr. Bygrave deceived <i>me?</i>&rdquo; proceeded
      Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I am glad to hear that. You will be all the readier to make
      the next discovery which is waiting for you&mdash;the discovery that Mr.
      Bygrave has deceived <i>you</i>. He is not here to slip through my fingers
      now, and I am not the helpless woman in this place that I was at
      Aldborough. Thank God!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She uttered that devout exclamation through her set teeth. All her hatred
      of Captain Wragge hissed out of her lips in those two words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oblige me, sir, by holding one side of my traveling-bag,&rdquo; she resumed,
      &ldquo;while I open it and take something out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The interior of the bag disclosed a series of neatly-folded papers, all
      laid together in order, and numbered outside. Mrs. Lecount took out one of
      the papers, and shut up the bag again with a loud snap of the spring that
      closed it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At Aldborough, Mr. Noel, I had only my own opinion to support me,&rdquo; she
      remarked. &ldquo;My own opinion was nothing against Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s youth and
      beauty, and Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s ready wit. I could only hope to attack your
      infatuation with proofs, and at that time I had not got them. I have got
      them now! I am armed at all points with proofs; I bristle from head to
      foot with proofs; I break my forced silence, and speak with the emphasis
      of my proofs. Do you know this writing, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He shrank back from the paper which she offered to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t understand this,&rdquo; he said, nervously. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what you
      want, or what you mean.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount forced the paper into his hand. &ldquo;You shall know what I mean,
      sir, if you will give me a moment&rsquo;s attention,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;On the day
      after you went away to St. Crux, I obtained admission to Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s
      house, and I had some talk in private with Mr. Bygrave&rsquo;s wife. That talk
      supplied me with the means to convince you which I had wanted to find for
      weeks and weeks past. I wrote you a letter to say so&mdash;I wrote to tell
      you that I would forfeit my place in your service, and my expectations
      from your generosity, if I did not prove to you when I came back from
      Switzerland that my own private suspicion of Miss Bygrave was the truth. I
      directed that letter to you at St. Crux, and I posted it myself. Now, Mr.
      Noel, read the paper which I have forced into your hand. It is Admiral
      Bartram&rsquo;s written affirmation that my letter came to St. Crux, and that he
      inclosed it to you, under cover to Mr. Bygrave, at your own request. Did
      Mr. Bygrave ever give you that letter? Don&rsquo;t agitate yourself, sir! One
      word of reply will do&mdash;Yes or No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He read the paper, and looked up at her with growing bewilderment and
      fear. She obstinately waited until he spoke. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said, faintly; &ldquo;I
      never got the letter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;First proof!&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, taking the paper from him, and putting
      it back in the bag. &ldquo;One more, with your kind permission, before we come
      to things more serious still. I gave you a written description, sir, at
      Aldborough, of a person not named, and I asked you to compare it with Miss
      Bygrave the next time you were in her company. After having first shown
      the description to Mr. Bygrave&mdash;it is useless to deny it now, Mr.
      Noel; your friend at North Shingles is not here to help you!&mdash;after
      having first shown my note to Mr. Bygrave, you made the comparison, and
      you found it fail in the most important particular. There were two little
      moles placed close together on the left side of the neck, in my
      description of the unknown lady, and there were no little moles at all
      when you looked at Miss Bygrave&rsquo;s neck. I am old enough to be your mother,
      Mr. Noel. If the question is not indelicate, may I ask what the present
      state of your knowledge is on the subject of your wife&rsquo;s neck?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at him with a merciless steadiness. He drew back a few steps,
      cowering under her eye. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t say,&rdquo; he stammered. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. What
      do you mean by these questions? I never thought about the moles afterward;
      I never looked. She wears her hair low&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has excellent reasons to wear it low, sir,&rdquo; remarked Mrs. Lecount.
      &ldquo;We will try and lift that hair before we have done with the subject. When
      I came out here to find you in the garden, I saw a neat young person
      through the kitchen window, with her work in her hand, who looked to my
      eyes like a lady&rsquo;s maid. Is this young person your wife&rsquo;s maid? I beg your
      pardon, sir, did you say yes? In that case, another question, if you
      please. Did you engage her, or did your wife?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I engaged her&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;While I was away? While I was in total ignorance that you meant to have a
      wife, or a wife&rsquo;s maid?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under those circumstances, Mr. Noel, you cannot possibly suspect me of
      conspiring to deceive you, with the maid for my instrument. Go into the
      house, sir, while I wait here. Ask the woman who dresses Mrs. Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s hair morning and night whether her mistress has a mark on the
      left side of her neck, and (if so) what that mark is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He walked a few steps toward the house without uttering a word, then
      stopped, and looked back at Mrs. Lecount. His blinking eyes were steady,
      and his wizen face had become suddenly composed. Mrs. Lecount advanced a
      little and joined him. She saw the change; but, with all her experience of
      him, she failed to interpret the true meaning of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you in want of a pretense, sir?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Are you at a loss to
      account to your wife&rsquo;s maid for such a question as I wish you to put to
      her? Pretenses are easily found which will do for persons in her station
      of life. Say I have come here with news of a legacy for Mrs. Noel
      Vanstone, and that there is a question of her identity to settle before
      she can receive the money.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She pointed to the house. He paid no attention to the sign. His face grew
      paler and paler. Without moving or speaking he stood and looked at her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you afraid?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      Those words roused him; those words lit a spark of the fire of manhood in
      him at last. He turned on her like a sheep on a dog.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t be questioned and ordered!&rdquo; he broke out, trembling violently
      under the new sensation of his own courage. &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t be threatened and
      mystified any longer! How did you find me out at this place? What do you
      mean by coming here with your hints and your mysteries? What have you got
      to say against my wife?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount composedly opened the traveling-bag and took out her smelling
      bottle, in case of emergency.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have spoken to me in plain words,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;In plain words, sir,
      you shall have your answer. Are you too angry to listen?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her looks and tones alarmed him, in spite of himself. His courage began to
      sink again; and, desperately as he tried to steady it, his voice trembled
      when he answered her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Give me my answer,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;and give it at once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your commands shall be obeyed, sir, to the letter,&rdquo; replied Mrs. Lecount.
      &ldquo;I have come here with two objects. To open your eyes to your own
      situation, and to save your fortune&mdash;perhaps your life. Your
      situation is this. Miss Bygrave has married you under a false character
      and a false name. Can you rouse your memory? Can you call to mind the
      disguised woman who threatened you in Vauxhall Walk? That woman&mdash;as
      certainly as I stand here&mdash;is now your wife.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He looked at her in breathless silence, his lips falling apart, his eyes
      fixed in vacant inquiry. The suddenness of the disclosure had overreached
      its own end. It had stupefied him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My wife?&rdquo; he repeated, and burst into an imbecile laugh.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your wife,&rdquo; reiterated Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the repetition of those two words the strain on his faculties relaxed.
      A thought dawned on him for the first time. His eyes fixed on her with a
      furtive alarm, and he drew back hastily. &ldquo;Mad!&rdquo; he said to himself, with a
      sudden remembrance of what his friend Mr. Bygrave had told him at
      Aldborough, sharpened by his own sense of the haggard change that he saw
      in her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      He spoke in a whisper, but Mrs. Lecount heard him. She was close at his
      side again in an instant. For the first time, her self-possession failed
      her, and she caught him angrily by the arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you put my madness to the proof, sir?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      He shook off her hold; he began to gather courage again, in the intense
      sincerity of his disbelief, courage to face the assertion which she
      persisted in forcing on him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he answered. &ldquo;What must I do?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do what I told you,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Ask the maid that question about
      her mistress on the spot. And if she tells you the mark is there, do one
      thing more. Take me up into your wife&rsquo;s room, and open her wardrobe in my
      presence with your own hands.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you want with her wardrobe?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall know when you open it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very strange!&rdquo; he said to himself, vacantly. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like a scene in a
      novel&mdash;it&rsquo;s like nothing in real life.&rdquo; He went slowly into the
      house, and Mrs. Lecount waited for him in the garden.
    </p>
    <p>
      After an absence of a few minutes only he appeared again, on the top of
      the flight of steps which led into the garden from the house. He held by
      the iron rail with one hand, while with the other he beckoned to Mrs.
      Lecount to join him on the steps.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What does the maid say?&rdquo; she asked, as she approached him. &ldquo;Is the mark
      there?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He answered in a whisper, &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; What he had heard from the maid had
      produced a marked change in him. The horror of the coming discovery had
      laid its paralyzing hold on his mind. He moved mechanically; he looked and
      spoke like a man in a dream.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you take my arm, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He shook his head, and, preceding her along the passage and up the stairs,
      led the way into his wife&rsquo;s room. When she joined him and locked the door,
      he stood passively waiting for his directions, without making any remark,
      without showing any external appearance of surprise. He had not removed
      either his hat or coat. Mrs. Lecount took them off for him. &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo;
       he said, with the docility of a well-trained child. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like a scene in
      a novel&mdash;it&rsquo;s like nothing in real life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The bed-chamber was not very large, and the furniture was heavy and
      old-fashioned. But evidences of Magdalen&rsquo;s natural taste and refinement
      were visible everywhere, in the little embellishments that graced and
      enlivened the aspect of the room. The perfume of dried rose-leaves hung
      fragrant on the cool air. Mrs. Lecount sniffed the perfume with a
      disparaging frown and threw the window up to its full height. &ldquo;Pah!&rdquo; she
      said, with a shudder of virtuous disgust, &ldquo;the atmosphere of deceit!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She seated herself near the window. The wardrobe stood against the wall
      opposite, and the bed was at the side of the room on her right hand. &ldquo;Open
      the wardrobe, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t go near it. I touch nothing in
      it myself. Take out the dresses with your own hand and put them on the
      bed. Take them out one by one until I tell you to stop.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He obeyed her. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do it as well as I can,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;My hands are cold,
      and my head feels half asleep.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The dresses to be removed were not many, for Magdalen had taken some of
      them away with her. After he had put two dresses on the bed, he was
      obliged to search in the inner recesses of the wardrobe before he could
      find a third. When he produced it, Mrs. Lecount made a sign to him to
      stop. The end was reached already; he had found the brown Alpaca dress.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lay it out on the bed, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;You will see a double
      flounce running round the bottom of it. Lift up the outer flounce, and
      pass the inner one through your fingers, inch by inch. If you come to a
      place where there is a morsel of the stuff missing, stop and look up at
      me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He passed the flounce slowly through his fingers for a minute or more,
      then stopped and looked up. Mrs. Lecount produced her pocket-book and
      opened it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Every word I now speak, sir, is of serious consequence to you and to me,&rdquo;
       she said. &ldquo;Listen with your closest attention. When the woman calling
      herself Miss Garth came to see us in Vauxhall Walk, I knelt down behind
      the chair in which she was sitting and I cut a morsel of stuff from the
      dress she wore, which might help me to know that dress if I ever saw it
      again. I did this while the woman&rsquo;s whole attention was absorbed in
      talking to you. The morsel of stuff has been kept in my pocketbook from
      that time to this. See for yourself, Mr. Noel, if it fits the gap in that
      dress which your own hands have just taken from your wife&rsquo;s wardrobe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose and handed him the fragment of stuff across the bed. He put it
      into the vacant space in the flounce as well as his trembling fingers
      would let him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Does it fit, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The dress dropped from his hands, and the deadly bluish pallor&mdash;which
      every doctor who attended him had warned his housekeeper to dread&mdash;overspread
      his face slowly. Mrs. Lecount had not reckoned on such an answer to her
      question as she now saw in his cheeks. She hurried round to him, with the
      smelling-bottle in her hand. He dropped to his knees and caught at her
      dress with the grasp of a drowning man. &ldquo;Save me!&rdquo; he gasped, in a hoarse,
      breathless whisper. &ldquo;Oh, Lecount, save me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I promise to save you,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount; &ldquo;I am here with the means and
      the resolution to save you. Come away from this place&mdash;come nearer to
      the air.&rdquo; She raised him as she spoke, and led him across the room to the
      window. &ldquo;Do you feel the chill pain again on your left side?&rdquo; she asked,
      with the first signs of alarm that she had shown yet. &ldquo;Has your wife got
      any eau-de-cologne, any sal-volatile in her room? Don&rsquo;t exhaust yourself
      by speaking&mdash;point to the place!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He pointed to a little triangular cupboard of old worm-eaten walnut-wood
      fixed high in a corner of the room. Mrs. Lecount tried the door: it was
      locked.
    </p>
    <p>
      As she made that discovery, she saw his head sink back gradually on the
      easy-chair in which she had placed him. The warning of the doctors in past
      years&mdash;&ldquo;If you ever let him faint, you let him die&rdquo;&mdash;recurred to
      her memory as if it had been spoken the day before. She looked at the
      cupboard again. In a recess under it lay some ends of cord, placed there
      apparently for purposes of packing. Without an instant&rsquo;s hesitation, she
      snatched up a morsel of cord, tied one end fast round the knob of the
      cupboard door, and seizing the other end in both hands, pulled it suddenly
      with the exertion of her whole strength. The rotten wood gave way, the
      cupboard doors flew open, and a heap of little trifles poured out noisily
      on the floor. Without stopping to notice the broken china and glass at her
      feet, she looked into the dark recesses of the cupboard and saw the gleam
      of two glass bottles. One was put away at the extreme back of the shelf,
      the other was a little in advance, almost hiding it. She snatched them
      both out at once, and took them, one in each hand, to the window, where
      she could read their labels in the clearer light.
    </p>
    <p>
      The bottle in her right hand was the first bottle she looked at. It was
      marked&mdash;<i>Sal-volatile</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      She instantly laid the other bottle aside on the table without looking at
      it. The other bottle lay there, waiting its turn. It held a dark liquid,
      and it was labeled&mdash;POISON.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      MRS. LECOUNT mixed the sal-volatile with water, and administered it
      immediately. The stimulant had its effect. In a few minutes Noel Vanstone
      was able to raise himself in the chair without assistance; his color
      changed again for the better, and his breath came and went more freely.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How do you feel now, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Are you warm again on
      your left side?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He paid no attention to that inquiry; his eyes, wandering about the room,
      turned by chance toward the table. To Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s surprise, instead of
      answering her, he bent forward in his chair, and looked with staring eyes
      and pointing hand at the second bottle which she had taken from the
      cupboard, and which she had hastily laid aside without paying attention to
      it. Seeing that some new alarm possessed him, she advanced to the table,
      and looked where he looked. The labeled side of the bottle was full in
      view; and there, in the plain handwriting of the chemist at Aldborough,
      was the one startling word confronting them both&mdash;&ldquo;Poison.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Even Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s self-possession was shaken by that discovery. She was
      not prepared to see her own darkest forebodings&mdash;the unacknowledged
      offspring of her hatred for Magdalen&mdash;realized as she saw them
      realized now. The suicide-despair in which the poison had been procured;
      the suicide-purpose for which, in distrust of the future, the poison had
      been kept, had brought with them their own retribution. There the bottle
      lay, in Magdalen&rsquo;s absence, a false witness of treason which had never
      entered her mind&mdash;treason against her husband&rsquo;s life!
    </p>
    <p>
      With his hand still mechanically pointing at the table Noel Vanstone
      raised his head and looked up at Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I took it from the cupboard,&rdquo; she said, answering the look. &ldquo;I took both
      bottles out together, not knowing which might be the bottle I wanted. I am
      as much shocked, as much frightened, as you are.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Poison!&rdquo; he said to himself, slowly. &ldquo;Poison locked up by my wife in the
      cupboard in her own room.&rdquo; He stopped, and looked at Mrs. Lecount once
      more. &ldquo;For <i>me?</i>&rdquo; he asked, in a vacant, inquiring tone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will not talk of it, sir, until your mind is more at ease,&rdquo; said Mrs.
      Lecount. &ldquo;In the meantime, the danger that lies waiting in this bottle
      shall be instantly destroyed in your presence.&rdquo; She took out the cork, and
      threw the laudanum out of window, and the empty bottle after it. &ldquo;Let us
      try to forget this dreadful discovery for the present,&rdquo; she resumed; &ldquo;let
      us go downstairs at once. All that I have now to say to you can be said in
      another room.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She helped him to rise from the chair, and took his arm in her own. &ldquo;It is
      well for him; it is well for me,&rdquo; she thought, as they went downstairs
      together, &ldquo;that I came when I did.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On crossing the passage, she stepped to the front door, where the carriage
      was waiting which had brought her from Dumfries, and instructed the
      coachman to put up his horses at the nearest inn, and to call again for
      her in two hours&rsquo; time. This done, she accompanied Noel Vanstone into the
      sitting-room, stirred up the fire, and placed him before it comfortably in
      an easy-chair. He sat for a few minutes, warming his hands feebly like an
      old man, and staring straight into the flame. Then he spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When the woman came and threatened me in Vauxhall Walk,&rdquo; he began, still
      staring into the fire, &ldquo;you came back to the parlor after she was gone,
      and you told me&mdash;?&rdquo; He stopped, shivered a little, and lost the
      thread of his recollections at that point.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I told you, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;that the woman was, in my opinion,
      Miss Vanstone herself. Don&rsquo;t start, Mr. Noel! Your wife is away, and I am
      here to take care of you. Say to yourself, if you feel frightened,
      &lsquo;Lecount is here; Lecount will take care of me.&rsquo; The truth must be told,
      sir, however hard to bear the truth may be. Miss Magdalen Vanstone was the
      woman who came to you in disguise; and the woman who came to you in
      disguise is the woman you have married. The conspiracy which she
      threatened you with in London is the conspiracy which has made her your
      wife. That is the plain truth. You have seen the dress upstairs. If that
      dress had been no longer in existence, I should still have had my proofs
      to convince you. Thanks to my interview with Mrs. Bygrave I have
      discovered the house your wife lodged at in London; it was opposite our
      house in Vauxhall Walk. I have laid my hand on one of the landlady&rsquo;s
      daughters, who watched your wife from an inner room, and saw her put on
      the disguise; who can speak to her identity, and to the identity of her
      companion, Mrs. Bygrave; and who has furnished me, at my own request, with
      a written statement of facts, which she is ready to affirm on oath if any
      person ventures to contradict her. You shall read the statement, Mr. Noel,
      if you like, when you are fitter to understand it. You shall also read a
      letter in the handwriting of Miss Garth&mdash;who will repeat to you
      personally every word she has written to me&mdash;a letter formally
      denying that she was ever in Vauxhall Walk, and formally asserting that
      those moles on your wife&rsquo;s neck are marks peculiar to Miss Magdalen
      Vanstone, whom she has known from childhood. I say it with a just pride&mdash;you
      will find no weak place anywhere in the evidence which I bring you. If Mr.
      Bygrave had not stolen my letter, you would have had your warning before I
      was cruelly deceived into going to Zurich; and the proofs which I now
      bring you, after your marriage, I should then have offered to you before
      it. Don&rsquo;t hold me responsible, sir, for what has happened since I left
      England. Blame your uncle&rsquo;s bastard daughter, and blame that villain with
      the brown eye and the green!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She spoke her last venomous words as slowly and distinctly as she had
      spoken all the rest. Noel Vanstone made no answer&mdash;he still sat
      cowering over the fire. She looked round into his face. He was crying
      silently. &ldquo;I was so fond of her!&rdquo; said the miserable little creature; &ldquo;and
      I thought she was so fond of Me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount turned her back on him in disdainful silence. &ldquo;Fond of her!&rdquo;
       As she repeated those words to herself, her haggard face became almost
      handsome again in the magnificent intensity of its contempt.
    </p>
    <p>
      She walked to a book-case at the lower end of the room, and began
      examining the volumes in it. Before she had been long engaged in this way,
      she was startled by the sound of his voice, affrightedly calling her back.
      The tears were gone from his face; it was blank again with terror when he
      now turned it toward her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lecount!&rdquo; he said, holding to her with both hands. &ldquo;Can an egg be
      poisoned? I had an egg for breakfast this morning, and a little toast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Make your mind easy, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;The poison of your wife&rsquo;s
      deceit is the only poison you have taken yet. If she had resolved already
      on making you pay the price of your folly with your life, she would not be
      absent from the house while you were left living in it. Dismiss the
      thought from your mind. It is the middle of the day; you want refreshment.
      I have more to say to you in the interests of your own safety&mdash;I have
      something for you to do, which must be done at once. Recruit your
      strength, and you will do it. I will set you the example of eating, if you
      still distrust the food in this house. Are you composed enough to give the
      servant her orders, if I ring the bell? It is necessary to the object I
      have in view for you, that nobody should think you ill in body or troubled
      in mind. Try first with me before the servant comes in. Let us see how you
      look and speak when you say, &lsquo;Bring up the lunch.&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After two rehearsals, Mrs. Lecount considered him fit to give the order,
      without betraying himself.
    </p>
    <p>
      The bell was answered by Louisa&mdash;Louisa looked hard at Mrs. Lecount.
      The luncheon was brought up by the house-maid&mdash;the house-maid looked
      hard at Mrs. Lecount. When luncheon was over, the table was cleared by the
      cook&mdash;the cook looked hard at Mrs. Lecount. The three servants were
      plainly suspicious that something extraordinary was going on in the house.
      It was hardly possible to doubt that they had arranged to share among
      themselves the three opportunities which the service of the table afforded
      them of entering the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The curiosity of which she was the object did not escape the penetration
      of Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I did well,&rdquo; she thought, &ldquo;to arm myself in good time
      with the means of reaching my end. If I let the grass grow under my feet,
      one or the other of those women might get in my way.&rdquo; Roused by this
      consideration, she produced her traveling-bag from a corner, as soon as
      the last of the servants had entered the room; and seating herself at the
      end of the table opposite Noel Vanstone, looked at him for a moment, with
      a steady, investigating attention. She had carefully regulated the
      quantity of wine which he had taken at luncheon&mdash;she had let him
      drink exactly enough to fortify, without confusing him; and she now
      examined his face critically, like an artist examining his picture at the
      end of the day&rsquo;s work. The result appeared to satisfy her, and she opened
      the serious business of the interview on the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you look at the written evidence I have mentioned to you, Mr. Noel,
      before I say any more?&rdquo; she inquired. &ldquo;Or are you sufficiently persuaded
      of the truth to proceed at once to the suggestion which I have now to make
      to you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me hear your suggestion,&rdquo; he said, sullenly resting his elbows on the
      table, and leaning his head on his hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount took from her traveling-bag the written evidence to which she
      had just alluded, and carefully placed the papers on one side of him,
      within easy reach, if he wished to refer to them. Far from being daunted,
      she was visibly encouraged by the ungraciousness of his manner. Her
      experience of him informed her that the sign was a promising one. On those
      rare occasions when the little resolution that he possessed was roused in
      him, it invariably asserted itself&mdash;like the resolution of most other
      weak men&mdash;aggressively. At such times, in proportion as he was
      outwardly sullen and discourteous to those about him, his resolution rose;
      and in proportion as he was considerate and polite, it fell. The tone of
      the answer he had just given, and the attitude he assumed at the table,
      convinced Mrs. Lecount that Spanish wine and Scotch mutton had done their
      duty, and had rallied his sinking courage.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will put the question to you for form&rsquo;s sake, sir, if you wish it,&rdquo; she
      proceeded. &ldquo;But I am already certain, without any question at all, that
      you have made your will?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He nodded his head without looking at her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have made it in your wife&rsquo;s favor?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He nodded again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have left her everything you possess?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount looked surprised.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you exercise a reserve toward her, Mr. Noel, of your own accord?&rdquo; she
      inquired; &ldquo;or is it possible that your wife put her own limits to her
      interest in your will?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was uneasily silent&mdash;he was plainly ashamed to answer the
      question. Mrs. Lecount repeated it in a less direct form.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How much have you left your widow, Mr. Noel, in the event of your death?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Eighty thousand pounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That reply answered the question. Eighty thousand pounds was exactly the
      fortune which Michael Vanstone had taken from his brother&rsquo;s orphan
      children at his brother&rsquo;s death&mdash;exactly the fortune of which Michael
      Vanstone&rsquo;s son had kept possession, in his turn, as pitilessly as his
      father before him. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s silence was eloquent of the confession
      which he was ashamed to make. His doting weakness had, beyond all doubt,
      placed his whole property at the feet of his wife. And this girl, whose
      vindictive daring had defied all restraints&mdash;this girl, who had not
      shrunk from her desperate determination even at the church door&mdash;had,
      in the very hour of her triumph, taken part only from the man who would
      willingly have given all!&mdash;had rigorously exacted her father&rsquo;s
      fortune from him to the last farthing; and had then turned her back on the
      hand that was tempting her with tens of thousands more! For the moment,
      Mrs. Lecount was fairly silenced by her own surprise; Magdalen had forced
      the astonishment from her which is akin to admiration, the astonishment
      which her enmity would fain have refused. She hated Magdalen with a
      tenfold hatred from that time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no doubt, sir,&rdquo; she resumed, after a momentary silence, &ldquo;that Mrs.
      Noel gave you excellent reasons why the provision for her at your death
      should be no more, and no less, than eighty thousand pounds. And, on the
      other hand, I am equally sure that you, in your innocence of all
      suspicion, found those reasons conclusive at the time. That time has now
      gone by. Your eyes are opened, sir; and you will not fail to remark (as I
      remark) that the Combe-Raven property happens to reach the same sum
      exactly, as the legacy which your wife&rsquo;s own instructions directed you to
      leave her. If you are still in any doubt of the motive for which she
      married you, look in your own will&mdash;and there the motive is!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He raised his head from his hands, and became closely attentive to what
      she was saying to him, for the first time since they had faced each other
      at the table. The Combe-Raven property had never been classed by itself in
      his estimation. It had come to him merged in his father&rsquo;s other
      possessions, at his father&rsquo;s death. The discovery which had now opened
      before him was one to which his ordinary habits of thought, as well as his
      innocence of suspicion, had hitherto closed his eyes. He said nothing; but
      he looked less sullenly at Mrs. Lecount. His manner was more ingratiating;
      the high tide of his courage was already on the ebb.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your position, sir, must be as plain by this time to you as it is to me,&rdquo;
       said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;There is only one obstacle now left between this woman
      and the attainment of her end. <i>That obstacle is your life.</i> After
      the discovery we have made upstairs, I leave you to consider for yourself
      what your life is worth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At those terrible words, the ebbing resolution in him ran out to the last
      drop. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t frighten me!&rdquo; he pleaded; &ldquo;I have been frightened enough
      already.&rdquo; He rose, and dragged his chair after him, round the table to
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s side. He sat down and caressingly kissed her hand. &ldquo;You
      good creature!&rdquo; he said, in a sinking voice. &ldquo;You excellent Lecount! Tell
      me what to do. I&rsquo;m full of resolution&mdash;I&rsquo;ll do anything to save my
      life!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you got writing materials in the room, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount.
      &ldquo;Will you put them on the table, if you please?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      While the writing materials were in process of collection, Mrs. Lecount
      made a new demand on the resources of her traveling-bag. She took two
      papers from it, each indorsed in the same neat commercial handwriting. One
      was described as &ldquo;Draft for proposed Will,&rdquo; and the other as &ldquo;Draft for
      proposed Letter.&rdquo; When she placed them before her on the table, her hand
      shook a little; and she applied the smelling-salts, which she had brought
      with her in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s interests, to her own nostrils.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had hoped, when I came here, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she proceeded, &ldquo;to have given
      you more time for consideration than it seems safe to give you now. When
      you first told me of your wife&rsquo;s absence in London, I thought it probable
      that the object of her journey was to see her sister and Miss Garth. Since
      the horrible discovery we have made upstairs, I am inclined to alter that
      opinion. Your wife&rsquo;s determination not to tell you who the friends are
      whom she has gone to see, fills me with alarm. She may have accomplices in
      London&mdash;accomplices, for anything we know to the contrary, in this
      house. All three of your servants, sir, have taken the opportunity, in
      turn, of coming into the room and looking at me. I don&rsquo;t like their looks!
      Neither you nor I know what may happen from day to day, or even from hour
      to hour. If you take my advice, you will get the start at once of all
      possible accidents; and, when the carriage comes back, you will leave this
      house with me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, yes!&rdquo; he said, eagerly; &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll leave the house with you. I wouldn&rsquo;t
      stop here by myself for any sum of money that could be offered me. What do
      we want the pen and ink for? Are you to write, or am I?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are to write, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;The means taken for promoting
      your own safety are to be means set in motion, from beginning to end, by
      yourself. I suggest, Mr. Noel&mdash;and you decide. Recognize your own
      position, sir. What is your first and foremost necessity? It is plainly
      this. You must destroy your wife&rsquo;s interest in your death by making
      another will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He vehemently nodded his approval; his color rose, and his blinking eyes
      brightened in malicious triumph. &ldquo;She shan&rsquo;t have a farthing,&rdquo; he said to
      himself, in a whisper&mdash;&ldquo;she shan&rsquo;t have a farthing!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When your will is made, sir,&rdquo; proceeded Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;you must place it
      in the hands of a trustworthy person&mdash;not my hands, Mr. Noel; I am
      only your servant! Then, when the will is safe, and when you are safe,
      write to your wife at this house. Tell her her infamous imposture is
      discovered; tell her you have made a new will, which leaves her penniless
      at your death; tell her, in your righteous indignation, that she enters
      your doors no more. Place yourself in that strong position, and it is no
      longer you who are at your wife&rsquo;s mercy, but your wife who is at yours.
      Assert your own power, sir, with the law to help you, and crush this woman
      into submission to any terms for the future that you please to impose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He eagerly took up the pen. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said, with a vindictive
      self-importance, &ldquo;any terms I please to impose.&rdquo; He suddenly checked
      himself and his face became dejected and perplexed. &ldquo;How can I do it now?&rdquo;
       he asked, throwing down the pen as quickly as he had taken it up.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do what, sir?&rdquo; inquired Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How can I make my will, with Mr. Loscombe away in London, and no lawyer
      here to help me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount gently tapped the papers before her on the table with her
      forefinger.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;All the help you need, sir, is waiting for you here,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I
      considered this matter carefully before I came to you; and I provided
      myself with the confidential assistance of a friend to guide me through
      those difficulties which I could not penetrate for myself. The friend to
      whom I refer is a gentleman of Swiss extraction, but born and bred in
      England. He is not a lawyer by profession&mdash;but he has had his own
      sufficient experience of the law, nevertheless; and he has supplied me,
      not only with a model by which you may make your will, but with the
      written sketch of a letter which it is as important for us to have, as the
      model of the will itself. There is another necessity waiting for you, Mr.
      Noel, which I have not mentioned yet, but which is no less urgent in its
      way than the necessity of the will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is it?&rdquo; he asked, with roused curiosity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will take it in its turn, sir,&rdquo; answered Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Its turn has
      not come yet. The will, if you please, first. I will dictate from the
      model in my possession and you will write.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Noel Vanstone looked at the draft for the Will and the draft for the
      Letter with suspicious curiosity.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think I ought to see the papers myself, before you dictate,&rdquo; he said.
      &ldquo;It would be more satisfactory to my own mind, Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;By all means, sir,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount, handing him the papers
      immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      He read the draft for the Will first, pausing and knitting his brows
      distrustfully, wherever he found blank spaces left in the manuscript to be
      filled in with the names of persons and the enumeration of sums bequeathed
      to them. Two or three minutes of reading brought him to the end of the
      paper. He gave it back to Mrs. Lecount without making any objection to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      The draft for the Letter was a much longer document. He obstinately read
      it through to the end, with an expression of perplexity and discontent
      which showed that it was utterly unintelligible to him. &ldquo;I must have this
      explained,&rdquo; he said, with a touch of his old self-importance, &ldquo;before I
      take any steps in the matter.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It shall be explained, sir, as we go on,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Every word of it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Every word of it, Mr. Noel, when its turn comes. You have no objection to
      the will? To the will, then, as I said before, let us devote ourselves
      first. You have seen for yourself that it is short enough and simple
      enough for a child to understand it. But if any doubts remain on your
      mind, by all means compose those doubts by showing your will to a lawyer
      by profession. In the meantime, let me not be considered intrusive if I
      remind you that we are all mortal, and that the lost opportunity can never
      be recalled. While your time is your own, sir, and while your enemies are
      unsuspicious of you, make your will!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She opened a sheet of note-paper and smoothed it out before him; she
      dipped the pen in ink, and placed it in his hands. He took it from her
      without speaking&mdash;he was, to all appearance, suffering under some
      temporary uneasiness of mind. But the main point was gained. There he sat,
      with the paper before him, and the pen in his hand; ready at last, in
      right earnest, to make his will.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The first question for you to decide, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, after a
      preliminary glance at her Draft, &ldquo;is your choice of an executor. I have no
      desire to influence your decision; but I may, without impropriety, remind
      you that a wise choice means, in other words, the choice of an old and
      tried friend whom you know that you can trust.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It means the admiral, I suppose?&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount bowed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well,&rdquo; he continued. &ldquo;The admiral let it be.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was plainly some oppression still weighing on his mind. Even under
      the trying circumstances in which he was placed it was not in his nature
      to take Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s perfectly sensible and disinterested advice without
      a word of cavil, as he had taken it now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you ready, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount dictated the first paragraph from the Draft, as follows:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This is the last Will and Testament of me, Noel Vanstone, now living at
      Baliol Cottage, near Dumfries. I revoke, absolutely and in every
      particular, my former will executed on the thirtieth of September,
      eighteen hundred and forty-seven; and I hereby appoint Rear-Admiral Arthur
      Everard Bartram, of St. Crux-in-the-Marsh, Essex, sole executor of this my
      will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you written those words, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount laid down the Draft; Noel Vanstone laid down the pen. They
      neither of them looked at each other. There was a long silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am waiting, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, at last, &ldquo;to hear what your
      wishes are in respect to the disposal of your fortune. Your <i>large</i>
      fortune,&rdquo; she added, with merciless emphasis.
    </p>
    <p>
      He took up the pen again, and began picking the feathers from the quill in
      dead silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps your existing will may help you to instruct me, sir,&rdquo; pursued
      Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;May I inquire to whom you left all your surplus money,
      after leaving the eighty thousand pounds to your wife?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If he had answered that question plainly, he must have said: &ldquo;I have left
      the whole surplus to my cousin, George Bartram&rdquo;&mdash;and the implied
      acknowledgment that Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s name was not mentioned in the will must
      then have followed in Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s presence. A much bolder man, in his
      situation, might have felt the same oppression and the same embarrassment
      which he was feeling now. He picked the last morsel of feather from the
      quill; and, desperately leaping the pitfall under his feet, advanced to
      meet Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s claims on him of his own accord.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I would rather not talk of any will but the will I am making now,&rdquo; he
      said uneasily. &ldquo;The first thing, Lecount&mdash;&rdquo; He hesitated&mdash;put
      the bare end of the quill into his mouth&mdash;gnawed at it thoughtfully&mdash;and
      said no more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir?&rdquo; persisted Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The first thing is&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The first thing is, to&mdash;to make some provision for You?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He spoke the last words in a tone of plaintive interrogation&mdash;as if
      all hope of being met by a magnanimous refusal had not deserted him even
      yet. Mrs. Lecount enlightened his mind on this point, without a moment&rsquo;s
      loss of time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, with the tone and manner of a woman who
      was not acknowledging a favor, but receiving a right.
    </p>
    <p>
      He took another bite at the quill. The perspiration began to appear on his
      face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The difficulty is,&rdquo; he remarked, &ldquo;to say how much.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your lamented father, sir,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;met that difficulty
      (if you remember) at the time of his last illness?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t remember,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, doggedly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were on one side of his bed, sir, and I was on the other. We were
      vainly trying to persuade him to make his will. After telling us he would
      wait and make his will when he was well again, he looked round at me, and
      said some kind and feeling words which my memory will treasure to my dying
      day. Have you forgotten those words, Mr. Noel?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Mr. Noel, without hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In my present situation, sir,&rdquo; retorted Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;delicacy forbids
      me to improve your memory.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at her watch, and relapsed into silence. He clinched his hands,
      and writhed from side to side of his chair in an agony of indecision. Mrs.
      Lecount passively refused to take the slightest notice of him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What should you say&mdash;?&rdquo; he began, and suddenly stopped again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What should you say to&mdash;a thousand pounds?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount rose from her chair, and looked him full in the face, with
      the majestic indignation of an outraged woman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After the service I have rendered you to-day, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I
      have at least earned a claim on your respect, if I have earned nothing
      more. I wish you good-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Two thousand!&rdquo; cried Noel Vanstone, with the courage of despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount folded up her papers and hung her traveling-bag over her arm
      in contemptuous silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Three thousand!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount moved with impenetrable dignity from the table to the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Four thousand!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount gathered her shawl round her with a shudder, and opened the
      door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Five thousand!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He clasped his hands, and wrung them at her in a frenzy of rage and
      suspense. &ldquo;Five thousand&rdquo; was the death-cry of his pecuniary suicide.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount softly shut the door again, and came back a step.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Free of legacy duty, sir?&rdquo; she inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount turned on her heel and opened the door again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount came back, and resumed her place at the table as if nothing
      had happened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Five thousand pounds, free of legacy duty, was the sum, sir, which your
      father&rsquo;s grateful regard promised me in his will,&rdquo; she said, quietly. &ldquo;If
      you choose to exert your memory, as you have not chosen to exert it yet,
      your memory will tell you that I speak the truth. I accept your filial
      performance of your father&rsquo;s promise, Mr. Noel&mdash;and there I stop. I
      scorn to take a mean advantage of my position toward you; I scorn to grasp
      anything from your fears. You are protected by my respect for myself, and
      for the Illustrious Name I bear. You are welcome to all that I have done,
      and to all that I have suffered in your service. The widow of Professor
      Lecompte, sir, takes what is justly hers&mdash;and takes no more!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As she spoke those words, the traces of sickness seemed, for the moment,
      to disappear from her face; her eyes shone with a steady inner light; all
      the woman warmed and brightened in the radiance of her own triumph&mdash;the
      triumph, trebly won, of carrying her point, of vindicating her integrity,
      and of matching Magdalen&rsquo;s incorruptible self-denial on Magdalen&rsquo;s own
      ground.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you are yourself again, sir, we will proceed. Let us wait a little
      first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She gave him time to compose himself; and then, after first looking at her
      Draft, dictated the second paragraph of the will, in these terms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I give and bequeath to Madame Virginie Lecompte (widow of Professor
      Lecompt e, late of Zurich) the sum of Five Thousand Pounds, free of Legacy
      Duty. And, in making this bequest, I wi sh to place it on record that I am
      not only expressing my own sense of Madame Lecompte&rsquo;s attachment and
      fidelity in the capacity of my housekeeper, but that I also believe myself
      to be executing the intentions of my deceased father, who, but for the
      circumstance of his dying intestate, would have left Madame Lecompte, in
      <i>his</i> will, the same token of grateful regard for her services which
      I now leave her in mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you written the last words, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount leaned across the table and offered Noel Vanstone her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;The five thousand pounds is the
      acknowledgment on your father&rsquo;s side of what I have done for him. The
      words in the will are the acknowledgment on yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A faint smile flickered over his face for the first time. It comforted
      him, on reflection, to think that matters might have been worse. There was
      balm for his wounded spirit in paying the debt of gratitude by a sentence
      not negotiable at his banker&rsquo;s. Whatever his father might have done, <i>he</i>
      had got Lecount a bargain, after all!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A little more writing, sir,&rdquo; resumed Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;and your painful but
      necessary duty will be performed. The trifling matter of my legacy being
      settled, we may come to the important question that is left. The future
      direction of a large fortune is now waiting your word of command. To whom
      is it to go?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He began to writhe again in his chair. Even under the all-powerful
      fascination of his wife the parting with his money on paper had not been
      accomplished without a pang. He had endured the pang; he had resigned
      himself to the sacrifice. And now here was the dreaded ordeal again,
      awaiting him mercilessly for the second time!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps it may assist your decision, sir, if I repeat a question which I
      have put to you already,&rdquo; observed Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;In the will that you
      made under your wife&rsquo;s influence, to whom did you leave the surplus money
      which remained at your own disposal?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was no harm in answering the question now. He acknowledged that he
      had left the money to his cousin George.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You could have done nothing better, Mr. Noel; and you can do nothing
      better now,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Mr. George and his two sisters are your
      only relations left. One of those sisters is an incurable invalid, with
      more than money enough already for all the wants which her affliction
      allows her to feel. The other is the wife of a man even richer than
      yourself. To leave the money to these sisters is to waste it. To leave the
      money to their brother George is to give your cousin exactly the
      assistance which he will want when he one day inherits his uncle&rsquo;s
      dilapidated house and his uncle&rsquo;s impoverished estate. A will which names
      the admiral your executor and Mr. George your heir is the right will for
      you to make. It does honor to the claims of friendship, and it does
      justice to the claims of blood.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She spoke warmly; for she spoke with a grateful remembrance of all that
      she herself owed to the hospitality of St. Crux. Noel Vanstone took up
      another pen and began to strip the second quill of its feathers as he had
      stripped the first.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said, reluctantly, &ldquo;I suppose George must have it&mdash;I
      suppose George has the principal claim on me.&rdquo; He hesitated: he looked at
      the door, he looked at the window, as if he longed to make his escape by
      one way or the other. &ldquo;Oh, Lecount,&rdquo; he cried, piteously, &ldquo;it&rsquo;s such a
      large fortune! Let me wait a little before I leave it to anybody.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      To his surprise; Mrs. Lecount at once complied with this characteristic
      request.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish you to wait, sir,&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;I have something important to
      say, before you add another line to your will. A little while since, I
      told you there was a second necessity connected with your present
      situation, which had not been provided for yet, but which must be provided
      for, when the time came. The time has come now. You have a serious
      difficulty to meet and conquer before you can leave your fortune to your
      cousin George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What difficulty?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount rose from her chair without answering, stole to the door, and
      suddenly threw it open. No one was listening outside; the passage was a
      solitude, from one end to the other.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I distrust all servants,&rdquo; she said, returning to her place&mdash;&ldquo;your
      servants particularly. Sit closer, Mr. Noel. What I have now to say to you
      must be heard by no living creature but ourselves.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THERE was a pause of a few minutes while Mrs. Lecount opened the second of
      the two papers which lay before her on the table, and refreshed her memory
      by looking it rapidly through. This done, she once more addressed herself
      to Noel Vanstone, carefully lowering her voice, so as to render it
      inaudible to any one who might be listening in the passage outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must beg your permission, sir,&rdquo; she began, &ldquo;to return to the subject of
      your wife. I do so most unwillingly; and I promise you that what I have
      now to say about her shall be said, for your sake and for mine, in the
      fewest words. What do we know of this woman, Mr. Noel&mdash;judging her by
      her own confession when she came to us in the character of Miss Garth, and
      by her own acts afterward at Aldborough? We know that, if death had not
      snatched your father out of her reach, she was ready with her plot to rob
      him of the Combe-Raven money. We know that, when you inherited the money
      in your turn, she was ready with her plot to rob <i>you</i>. We know how
      she carried that plot through to the end; and we know that nothing but
      your death is wanted, at this moment, to crown her rapacity and her
      deception with success. We are sure of these things. We are sure that she
      is young, bold, and clever&mdash;that she has neither doubts, scruples,
      nor pity&mdash;and that she possesses the personal qualities which men in
      general (quite incomprehensibly to <i>me!</i>) are weak enough to admire.
      These are not fancies, Mr. Noel, but facts; you know them as well as I
      do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He made a sign in the affirmative, and Mrs. Lecount went on:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Keep in your mind what I have said of the past, sir, and now look with me
      to the future. I hope and trust you have a long life still before you; but
      let us, for the moment only, suppose the case of your death&mdash;your
      death leaving this will behind you, which gives your fortune to your
      cousin George. I am told there is an office in London in which copies of
      all wills must be kept. Any curious stranger who chooses to pay a shilling
      for the privilege may enter that office, and may read any will in the
      place at his or her discretion. Do you see what I am coming to, Mr. Noel?
      Your disinherited widow pays her shilling, and reads your will. Your
      disinherited widow sees that the Combe-Raven money, which has gone from
      your father to you, goes next from you to Mr. George Bartram. What is the
      certain end of that discovery? The end is, that you leave to your cousin
      and your friend the legacy of this woman&rsquo;s vengeance and this woman&rsquo;s
      deceit-vengeance made more resolute, deceit made more devilish than ever,
      by her exasperation at her own failure. What is your cousin George? He is
      a generous, unsuspicious man; incapable of deceit himself, and fearing no
      deception in others. Leave him at the mercy of your wife&rsquo;s unscrupulous
      fascinations and your wife&rsquo;s unfathomable deceit, and I see the end as
      certainly as I see you sitting there! She will blind his eyes, as she
      blinded yours; and, in spite of <i>you</i>, in spite of <i>me</i>, she
      will have the money!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She stopped, and left her last words time to gain their hold on his mind.
      The circumstances had been stated so clearly, the conclusion from them had
      been so plainly drawn, that he seized her meaning without an effort, and
      seized it at once.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see!&rdquo; he said, vindictively clinching his hands. &ldquo;I understand,
      Lecount! She shan&rsquo;t have a farthing. What shall I do? Shall I leave the
      money to the admiral?&rdquo; He paused, and considered a little. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he
      resumed; &ldquo;there&rsquo;s the same danger in leaving it to the admiral that there
      is in leaving it to George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There is no danger, Mr. Noel, if you take my advice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is your advice?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Follow your own idea, sir. Take the pen in hand again, and leave the
      money to Admiral Bartram.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He mechanically dipped the pen in the ink, and then hesitated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall know where I am leading you, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;before
      you sign your will. In the meantime, let us gain every inch of ground we
      can, as we go on. I want the will to be all written out before we advance
      a single step beyond it. Begin your third paragraph, Mr. Noel, under the
      lines which leave me my legacy of five thousand pounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She dictated the last momentous sentence of the will (from the rough draft
      in her own possession) in these words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The whole residue of my estate, after payment of my burial expenses and
      my lawful debts, I give and bequeath to Rear-Admiral Arthur Everard
      Bartram, my Executor aforesaid; to be by him applied to such uses as he
      may think fit.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Signed, sealed, and delivered, this third day of November, eighteen
      hundred and forty-seven, by Noel Vanstone, the within-named testator, as
      and for his last Will and Testament, in the presence of us&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is that all?&rdquo; asked Noel Vanstone, in astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is enough, sir, to bequeath your fortune to the admiral; and
      therefore that is all. Now let us go back to the case which we have
      supposed already. Your widow pays her shilling, and sees this will. There
      is the Combe-Raven money left to Admiral Bartram, with a declaration in
      plain words that it is his, to use as he likes. When she sees this, what
      does she do? She sets her trap for the admiral. He is a bachelor, and he
      is an old man. Who is to protect him against the arts of this desperate
      woman? Protect him yourself, sir, with a few more strokes of that pen
      which has done such wonders already. You have left him this legacy in your
      will&mdash;which your wife sees. Take the legacy away again, in a letter&mdash;which
      is a dead secret between the admiral and you. Put the will and the letter
      under one cover, and place them in the admiral&rsquo;s possession, with your
      written directions to him to break the seal on the day of your death. Let
      the will say what it says now; and let the letter (which is your secret
      and his) tell him the truth. Say that, in leaving him your fortune, you
      leave it with the request that he will take his legacy with one hand from
      you, and give it with the other to his nephew George. Tell him that your
      trust in this matter rests solely on your confidence in his honor, and on
      your belief in his affectionate remembrance of your father and yourself.
      You have known the admiral since you were a boy. He has his little whims
      and oddities; but he is a gentleman from the crown of his head to the sole
      of his foot; and he is utterly incapable of proving false to a trust in
      his honor, reposed by his dead friend. Meet the difficulty boldly, by such
      a stratagem as this; and you save these two helpless men from your wife&rsquo;s
      snare, one by means of the other. Here, on one side, is your will, which
      gives the fortune to the admiral, and sets her plotting accordingly. And
      there, on the other side, is your letter, which privately puts the money
      into the nephew&rsquo;s hands!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The malicious dexterity of this combination was exactly the dexterity
      which Noel Vanstone was most fit to appreciate. He tried to express his
      approval and admiration in words. Mrs. Lecount held up her hand warningly
      and closed his lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait, sir, before you express your opinion,&rdquo; she went on. &ldquo;Half the
      difficulty is all that we have conquered yet. Let us say, the admiral has
      made the use of your legacy which you have privately requested him to make
      of it. Sooner or later, however well the secret may be kept, your wife
      will discover the truth. What follows that discovery! She lays siege to
      Mr. George. All you have done is to leave him the money by a roundabout
      way. There he is, after an interval of time, as much at her mercy as if
      you had openly mentioned him in your will. What is the remedy for this?
      The remedy is to mislead her, if we can, for the second time&mdash;to set
      up an obstacle between her and the money, for the protection of your
      cousin George. Can you guess for yourself, Mr. Noel, what is the most
      promising obstacle we can put in her way?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He shook his head. Mrs. Lecount smiled, and startled him into close
      attention by laying her hand on his arm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Put a Woman in her way, sir!&rdquo; she whispered in her wiliest tones. &ldquo;<i>We</i>
      don&rsquo;t believe in that fascinating beauty of hers&mdash;whatever <i>you</i>
      may do. <i>Our</i> lips don&rsquo;t burn to kiss those smooth cheeks. <i>Our</i>
      arms don&rsquo;t long to be round that supple waist. <i>We</i> see through her
      smiles and her graces, and her stays and her padding&mdash;she can&rsquo;t
      fascinate <i>us!</i> Put a woman in her way, Mr. Noel! Not a woman in my
      helpless situation, who is only a servant, but a woman with the authority
      and the jealousy of a Wife. Make it a condition, in your letter to the
      admiral, that if Mr. George is a bachelor at the time of your death, he
      shall marry within a certain time afterward, or he shall not have the
      legacy. Suppose he remains single in spite of your condition, who is to
      have the money then? Put a woman in your wife&rsquo;s way, sir, once more&mdash;and
      leave the fortune, in that case, to the married sister of your cousin
      George.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She paused. Noel Vanstone again attempted to express his opinion, and
      again Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s hand extinguished him in silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you approve, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I will take your approval for
      granted. If you object, I will meet your objection before it is out of
      your mouth. You may say: Suppose this condition is sufficient to answer
      the purpose, why hide it in a private letter to the admiral? Why not
      openly write it down, with my cousin&rsquo;s name, in the will? Only for one
      reason, sir. Only because the secret way is the sure way, with such a
      woman as your wife. The more secret you can keep your intentions, the more
      time you force her to waste in finding them out for herself. That time
      which she loses is time gained from her treachery by the admiral&mdash;time
      gained by Mr. George (if he is still a bachelor) for his undisturbed
      choice of a lady&mdash;time gained, for her own security, by the object of
      his choice, who might otherwise be the first object of your wife&rsquo;s
      suspicion and your wife&rsquo;s hostility. Remember the bottle we have
      discovered upstairs; and keep this desperate woman ignorant, and therefore
      harmless, as long as you can. There is my advice, Mr. Noel, in the fewest
      and plainest words. What do you say, sir? Am I almost as clever in my way
      as your friend Mr. Bygrave? Can I, too, conspire a little, when the object
      of my conspiracy is to assist your wishes and to protect your friends?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Permitted the use of his tongue at last, Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s admiration of
      Mrs. Lecount expressed itself in terms precisely similar to those which he
      had used on a former occasion, in paying his compliments to Captain
      Wragge. &ldquo;What a head you have got!&rdquo; were the grateful words which he had
      once spoken to Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s bitterest enemy. &ldquo;What a head you have got!&rdquo;
       were the grateful words which he now spoke again to Mrs. Lecount herself.
      So do extremes meet; and such is sometimes the all-embracing capacity of
      the approval of a fool!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Allow my head, sir, to deserve the compliment which you have paid to it,&rdquo;
       said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;The letter to the admiral is not written yet. Your
      will there is a body without a soul&mdash;an Adam without an Eve&mdash;until
      the letter is completed and laid by its side. A little more dictation on
      my part, a little more writing on yours, and our work is done. Pardon me.
      The letter will be longer than the will; we must have larger paper than
      the note-paper this time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The writing-case was searched, and some letter paper was found in it of
      the size required. Mrs. Lecount resumed her dictation; and Noel Vanstone
      resumed his pen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Baliol Cottage, Dumfries,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;November 3d, 1847.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Private.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR ADMIRAL BARTRAM&mdash;When you open my Will (in which you are named
      my sole executor), you will find that I have bequeathed the whole residue
      of my estate&mdash;after payment of one legacy of five thousand pounds&mdash;to
      yourself. It is the purpose of my letter to tell you privately what the
      object is for which I have left you the fortune which is now placed in
      your hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg you to consider this large legacy as intended, under certain
      conditions, to be given by you to your nephew George. If your nephew is
      married at the time of my death, and if his wife is living, I request you
      to put him at once in possession of your legacy; accompanying it by the
      expression of my desire (which I am sure he will consider a sacred and
      binding obligation on him) that he will settle the money on his wife&mdash;and
      on his children, if he has any. If, on the other hand, he is unmarried at
      the time of my death, or if he is a widower&mdash;in either of those
      cases, I make it a condition of his receiving the legacy, that he shall be
      married within the period of&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount laid down the Draft letter from which she had been dictating
      thus far, and informed Noel Vanstone by a sign that his pen might rest.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have come to the question of time, sir,&rdquo; she observed. &ldquo;How long will
      you give your cousin to marry, if he is single, or a widower, at the time
      of your death?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I give him a year?&rdquo; inquired Noel Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If we had nothing to consider but the interests of Propriety,&rdquo; said Mrs.
      Lecount, &ldquo;I should say a year too, sir&mdash;especially if Mr. George
      should happen to be a widower. But we have your wife to consider, as well
      as the interests of Propriety. A year of delay, between your death and
      your cousin&rsquo;s marriage, is a dangerously long time to leave the disposal
      of your fortune in suspense. Give a determined woman a year to plot and
      contrive in, and there is no saying what she may not do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Six months?&rdquo; suggested Noel Vanstone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Six months, sir,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;is the preferable time of the
      two. A six months&rsquo; interval from the day of your death is enough for Mr.
      George. You look discomposed, sir; what is the matter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish you wouldn&rsquo;t talk so much about my death,&rdquo; he broke out,
      petulantly. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t like it! I hate the very sound of the word!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount smiled resignedly, and referred to her Draft.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see the word &lsquo;decease&rsquo; written here,&rdquo; she remarked. &ldquo;Perhaps, Mr. Noel,
      you would prefer it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;I prefer &lsquo;Decease.&rsquo; It doesn&rsquo;t sound so dreadful as
      &lsquo;Death.&rsquo;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let us go on with the letter, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She resumed her dictation, as follows:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;...in either of those cases, I make it a condition of his receiving the
      legacy that he shall be married within the period of Six calendar months
      from the day of my decease; that the woman he marries shall not be a
      widow; and that his marriage shall be a marriage by Banns, publicly
      celebrated in the parish church of Ossory&mdash;where he has been known
      from his childhood, and where the family and circumstances of his future
      wife are likely to be the subject of public interest and inquiry.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, quietly looking up from the Draft, &ldquo;is to
      protect Mr. George, sir, in case the same trap is set for him which was
      successfully set for you. She will not find her false character and her
      false name fit quite so easily next time&mdash;no, not even with Mr.
      Bygrave to help her! Another dip of ink, Mr. Noel; let us write the next
      paragraph. Are you ready?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount went on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If your nephew fails to comply with these conditions&mdash;that is to
      say, if being either a bachelor or a widower at the time of my decease, he
      fails to marry in all respects as I have here instructed him to marry,
      within Six calendar months from that time&mdash;it is my desire that he
      shall not receive the legacy, or any part of it. I request you, in the
      case here supposed, to pass him over altogether; and to give the fortune
      left you in my will to his married sister, Mrs. Girdlestone.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Having now put you in possession of my motives and intentions, I come to
      the next question which it is necessary to consider. If, when you open
      this letter, your nephew is an unmarried man, it is clearly indispensable
      that he should know of the conditions here imposed on him, as soon, if
      possible, as you know of them yourself. Are you, under these
      circumstances, freely to communicate to him what I have here written to
      you? Or are you to leave him under the impression that no such private
      expression of my wishes as this is in existence; and are you to state all
      the conditions relating to his marriage, as if they emanated entirely from
      yourself?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will adopt this latter alternative, you will add one more to the
      many obligations under which your friendship has placed me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have serious reason to believe that the possession of my money, and the
      discovery of any peculiar arrangements relating to the disposal of it,
      will be objects (after my decease) of the fraud and conspiracy of an
      unscrupulous person. I am therefore anxious&mdash;for your sake, in the
      first place&mdash;that no suspicion of the existence of this letter should
      be conveyed to the mind of the person to whom I allude. And I am equally
      desirous&mdash;for Mrs. Girdlestone&rsquo;s sake, in the second place&mdash;that
      this same person should be entirely ignorant that the legacy will pass
      into Mrs. Girdlestone&rsquo;s possession, if your nephew is not married in the
      given time. I know George&rsquo;s easy, pliable disposition; I dread the
      attempts that will be made to practice on it; and I feel sure that the
      prudent course will be, to abstain from trusting him with secrets, the
      rash revelation of which might be followed by serious, and even dangerous
      results.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;State the conditions, therefore, to your nephew, as if they were your
      own. Let him think they have been suggested to your mind by the new
      responsibilities imposed on you as a man of property, by your position in
      my will, and by your consequent anxiety to provide for the perpetuation of
      the family name. If these reasons are not sufficient to satisfy him, there
      can be no objection to your referring him, for any further explanations
      which he may desire, to his wedding-day.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have done. My last wishes are now confided to you, in implicit reliance
      on your honor, and on your tender regard for the memory of your friend. Of
      the miserable circumstances which compel me to write as I have written
      here, I say nothing. You will hear of them, if my life is spared, from my
      own lips&mdash;for you will be the first friend whom I shall consult in my
      difficulty and distress. Keep this letter strictly secret, and strictly in
      your own possession, until my requests are complied with. Let no human
      being but yourself know where it is, on any pretense whatever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Believe me, dear Admiral Bartram, affectionately yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NOEL VANSTONE.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you signed, sir?&rdquo; asked Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;Let me look the letter over,
      if you please, before we seal it up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She read the letter carefully. In Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s close, cramped
      handwriting, it filled two pages of letter-paper, and ended at the top of
      the third page. Instead of using an envelope, Mrs. Lecount folded it,
      neatly and securely, in the old-fashioned way. She lit the taper in the
      ink-stand, and returned the letter to the writer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Seal it, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;with your own hand, and your own seal.&rdquo;
       She extinguished the taper, and handed him the pen again. &ldquo;Address the
      letter, sir,&rdquo; she proceeded, &ldquo;to <i>Admiral Bartram, St.
      Crux-in-the-Marsh, Essex.</i> Now, add these words, and sign them, above
      the address: <i>To be kept in your own possession, and to be opened by
      yourself only, on the day of my death</i>&mdash;or &lsquo;Decease,&rsquo; if you
      prefer it&mdash;<i>Noel Vanstone.</i> Have you done? Let me look at it
      again. Quite right in every particular. Accept my congratulations, sir. If
      your wife has not plotted her last plot for the Combe-Raven money, it is
      not your fault, Mr. Noel&mdash;and not mine!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Finding his attention released by the completion of the letter, Noel
      Vanstone reverted at once to purely personal considerations. &ldquo;There is my
      packing-up to be thought of now,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t go away without my
      warm things.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, sir,&rdquo; rejoined Mrs. Lecount, &ldquo;there is the Will to be signed
      first; and there must be two persons found to witness your signature.&rdquo; She
      looked out of the front window, and saw the carriage waiting at the door.
      &ldquo;The coachman will do for one of the witnesses,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;He is in
      respectable service at Dumfries, and he can be found if he happens to be
      wanted. We must have one of your own servants, I suppose, for the other
      witness. They are all detestable women; but the cook is the least
      ill-looking of the three. Send for the cook, sir; while I go out and call
      the coachman. When we have got our witnesses here, you have only to speak
      to them in these words: &lsquo;I have a document here to sign, and I wish you to
      write your names on it, as witnesses of my signature.&rsquo; Nothing more, Mr.
      Noel! Say those few words in your usual manner&mdash;and, when the signing
      is over, I will see myself to your packing-up, and your warm things.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She went to the front door, and summoned the coachman to the parlor. On
      her return, she found the cook already in the room. The cook looked
      mysteriously offended, and stared without intermission at Mrs. Lecount. In
      a minute more the coachman&mdash;an elderly man&mdash;came in. He was
      preceded by a relishing odor of whisky; but his head was Scotch; and
      nothing but his odor betrayed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a document here to sign,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, repeating his
      lesson; &ldquo;and I wish you to write your names on it, as witnesses of my
      signature.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The coachman looked at the will. The cook never removed her eyes from Mrs.
      Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll no object, sir,&rdquo; said the coachman, with the national caution
      showing itself in every wrinkle on his face&mdash;&ldquo;ye&rsquo;ll no object, sir,
      to tell me, first, what the Doecument may be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount interposed before Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s indignation could express
      itself in words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You must tell the man, sir, that this is your Will,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;When he
      witnesses your signature, he can see as much for himself if he looks at
      the top of the page.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay, ay,&rdquo; said the coachman, looking at the top of the page immediately.
      &ldquo;His last Will and Testament. Hech, sirs! there&rsquo;s a sair confronting of
      Death in a Doecument like yon! A&rsquo; flesh is grass,&rdquo; continued the coachman,
      exhaling an additional puff of whisky, and looking up devoutly at the
      ceiling. &ldquo;Tak&rsquo; those words in connection with that other Screepture: Many
      are ca&rsquo;ad, but few are chosen. Tak&rsquo; that again, in connection with
      Rev&rsquo;lations, Chapter the First, verses One to Fefteen. Lay the whole to
      heart; and what&rsquo;s your Walth, then? Dross, sirs! And your body?
      (Screepture again.) Clay for the potter! And your life? (Screepture once
      more.) The Breeth o&rsquo; your Nostrils!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The cook listened as if the cook was at church: but she never removed her
      eyes from Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You had better sign, sir. This is apparently some custom prevalent in
      Dumfries during the transaction of business,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount,
      resignedly. &ldquo;The man means well, I dare say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She added those last words in a soothing tone, for she saw that Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s indignation was fast merging into alarm. The coachman&rsquo;s
      outburst of exhortation seemed to have inspired him with fear, as well as
      disgust.
    </p>
    <p>
      He dipped the pen in the ink, and signed the Will without uttering a word.
      The coachman (descending instantly from Theology to Business) watched the
      signature with the most scrupulous attention; and signed his own name as
      witness, with an implied commentary on the proceeding, in the form of
      another puff of whisky, exhaled through the medium of a heavy sigh. The
      cook looked away from Mrs. Lecount with an effort&mdash;signed her name in
      a violent hurry&mdash;and looked back again with a start, as if she
      expected to see a loaded pistol (produced in the interval) in the
      housekeeper&rsquo;s hands. &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, in her friendliest
      manner. The cook shut up her lips aggressively and looked at her master.
      &ldquo;You may go!&rdquo; said her master. The cook coughed contemptuously, and went.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We shan&rsquo;t keep you long,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount, dismissing the coachman. &ldquo;In
      half an hour, or less, we shall be ready for the journey back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The coachman&rsquo;s austere countenance relaxed for the first time. He smiled
      mysteriously, and approached Mrs. Lecount on tiptoe.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll no forget one thing, my leddy,&rdquo; he said, with the most ingratiating
      politeness. &ldquo;Ye&rsquo;ll no forget the witnessing as weel as the driving, when
      ye pay me for my day&rsquo;s wark!&rdquo; He laughed with guttural gravity; and,
      leaving his atmosphere behind him, stalked out of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lecount,&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, as soon as the coachman closed the door,
      &ldquo;did I hear you tell that man we should be ready in half an hour?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you blind?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He asked the question with an angry stamp of his foot. Mrs. Lecount looked
      at him in astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can&rsquo;t you see the brute is drunk?&rdquo; he went on, more and more irritably.
      &ldquo;Is my life nothing? Am I to be left at the mercy of a drunken coachman? I
      won&rsquo;t trust that man to drive me, for any consideration under heaven! I&rsquo;m
      surprised you could think of it, Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The man has been drinking, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;It is easy to see
      and to smell that. But he is evidently used to drinking. If he is sober
      enough to walk quite straight&mdash;which he certainly does&mdash;and to
      sign his name in an excellent handwriting&mdash;which you may see for
      yourself on the Will&mdash;I venture to think he is sober enough to drive
      us to Dumfries.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Nothing of the sort! You&rsquo;re a foreigner, Lecount; you don&rsquo;t understand
      these people. They drink whisky from morning to night. Whisky is the
      strongest spirit that&rsquo;s made; whisky is notorious for its effect on the
      brain. I tell you, I won&rsquo;t run the risk. I never was driven, and I never
      will be driven, by anybody but a sober man.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must I go back to Dumfries by myself, sir?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And leave me here? Leave me alone in this house after what has happened?
      How do I know my wife may not come back to-night? How do I know her
      journey is not a blind to mislead me? Have you no feeling, Lecount? Can
      you leave me in my miserable situation&mdash;?&rdquo; He sank into a chair and
      burst out crying over his own idea, before he had completed the expression
      of it in words. &ldquo;Too bad!&rdquo; he said, with his handkerchief over his face&mdash;&ldquo;too
      bad!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It was impossible not to pity him. If ever mortal was pitiable, he was the
      man. He had broken down at last, under the conflict of violent emotions
      which had been roused in him since the morning. The effort to follow Mrs.
      Lecount along the mazes of intricate combination through which she had
      steadily led the way, had upheld him while that effort lasted: the moment
      it was at an end, he dropped. The coachman had hastened a result&mdash;of
      which the coachman was far from being the cause.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You surprise me&mdash;you distress me, sir,&rdquo; said Mrs. Lecount. &ldquo;I
      entreat you to compose yourself. I will stay here, if you wish it, with
      pleasure&mdash;I will stay here to-night, for your sake. You want rest and
      quiet after this dreadful day. The coachman shall be instantly sent away,
      Mr. Noel. I will give him a note to the landlord of the hotel, and the
      carriage shall come back for us to-morrow morning, with another man to
      drive it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The prospect which those words presented cheered him. He wiped his eyes,
      and kissed Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s hand. &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; he said, faintly; &ldquo;send the
      coachman away&mdash;and you stop here. You good creature! You excellent
      Lecount! Send the drunken brute away, and come back directly. We will be
      comfortable by the fire, Lecount&mdash;and have a nice little dinner&mdash;and
      try to make it like old times.&rdquo; His weak voice faltered; he returned to
      the fire side, and melted into tears again under the pathetic influence of
      his own idea.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount left him for a minute to dismiss the coachman. When she
      returned to the parlor she found him with his hand on the bell.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do you want, sir?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to tell the servants to get your room ready,&rdquo; he answered. &ldquo;I wish
      to show you every attention, Lecount.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are all kindness, Mr. Noel; but wait one moment. It may be well to
      have these papers put out of the way before the servant comes in again. If
      you will place the Will and the Sealed Letter together in one envelope&mdash;and
      if you will direct it to the admiral&mdash;I will take care that the
      inclosure so addressed is safely placed in his own hands. Will you come to
      the table, Mr. Noel, only for one minute more?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      No! He was obstinate; he refused to move from the fire; he was sick and
      tired of writing: he wished he had never been born, and he loathed the
      sight of pen and ink. All Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s patience and all Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s
      persuasion were required to induce him to write the admiral&rsquo;s address for
      the second time. She only succeeded by bringing the blank envelope to him
      upon the paper-case, and putting it coaxingly on his lap. He grumbled, he
      even swore, but he directed the envelope at last, in these terms: &ldquo;To
      Admiral Bartram, St. Crux-in-the-Marsh. Favored by Mrs. Lecount.&rdquo; With
      that final act of compliance his docility came to an end. He refused, in
      the fiercest terms, to seal the envelope. There was no need to press this
      proceeding on him. His seal lay ready on the table, and it mattered
      nothing whether he used it, or whether a person in his confidence used it
      for him. Mrs. Lecount sealed the envelope, with its two important
      inclosures placed safely inside.
    </p>
    <p>
      She opened her traveling-bag for the last time, and pausing for a moment
      before she put the sealed packet away, looked at it with a triumph too
      deep for words. She smiled as she dropped it into the bag. Not the shadow
      of a suspicion that the Will might contain superfluous phrases and
      expressions which no practical lawyer would have used; not the vestige of
      a doubt whether the Letter was quite as complete a document as a practical
      lawyer might have made it, troubled her mind. In blind reliance&mdash;born
      of her hatred for Magdalen and her hunger for revenge&mdash;in blind
      reliance on her own abilities and on her friend&rsquo;s law, she trusted the
      future implicitly to the promise of the morning&rsquo;s work.
    </p>
    <p>
      As she locked her traveling-bag Noel Vanstone rang the bell. On this
      occasion, the summons was answered by Louisa.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Get the spare room ready,&rdquo; said her master; &ldquo;this lady will sleep here
      to-night. And air my warm things; this lady and I are going away to-morrow
      morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The civil and submissive Louisa received her orders in sullen silence&mdash;darted
      an angry look at her master&rsquo;s impenetrable guest&mdash;and left the room.
      The servants were evidently all attached to their mistress&rsquo;s interests,
      and were all of one opinion on the subject of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That&rsquo;s done!&rdquo; said Noel Vanstone, with a sigh of infinite relief. &ldquo;Come
      and sit down, Lecount. Let&rsquo;s be comfortable&mdash;let&rsquo;s gossip over the
      fire.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount accepted the invitation and drew an easy-chair to his side.
      He took her hand with a confidential tenderness, and held it in his while
      the talk went on. A stranger, looking in through the window, would have
      taken them for mother and son, and would have thought to himself: &ldquo;What a
      happy home!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The gossip, led by Noel Vanstone, consisted as usual of an endless string
      of questions, and was devoted entirely to the subject of himself and his
      future prospects. Where would Lecount take him to when they went away the
      next morning? Why to London? Why should he be left in London, while
      Lecount went on to St. Crux to give the admiral the Letter and the Will?
      Because his wife might follow him, if he went to the admiral&rsquo;s? Well,
      there was something in that. And because he ought to be safely concealed
      from her, in some comfortable lodging, near Mr. Loscombe? Why near Mr.
      Loscombe? Ah, yes, to be sure&mdash;to know what the law would do to help
      him. Would the law set him free from the Wretch who had deceived him? How
      tiresome of Lecount not to know! Would the law say he had gone and married
      himself a second time, because he had been living with the Wretch, like
      husband and wife, in Scotland? Anything that publicly assumed to be a
      marriage was a marriage (he had heard) in Scotland. How excessively
      tiresome of Lecount to sit there and say she knew nothing about it! Was he
      to stay long in London by himself, with nobody but Mr. Loscombe to speak
      to? Would Lecount come back to him as soon as she had put those important
      papers in the admiral&rsquo;s own hands? Would Lecount consider herself still in
      his service? The good Lecount! the excellent Lecount! And after all the
      law-business was over&mdash;what then? Why not leave this horrid England
      and go abroad again? Why not go to France, to some cheap place near Paris?
      Say Versailles? say St. Germain? In a nice little French house&mdash;cheap?
      With a nice French <i>bonne</i> to cook&mdash;who wouldn&rsquo;t waste his
      substance in the grease-pot? With a nice little garden&mdash;where he
      could work himself, and get health, and save the expense of keeping a
      gardener? It wasn&rsquo;t a bad idea. And it seemed to promise well for the
      future&mdash;didn&rsquo;t it, Lecount?
    </p>
    <p>
      So he ran on&mdash;the poor weak creature! the abject, miserable little
      man!
    </p>
    <p>
      As the darkness gathered at the close of the short November day he began
      to grow drowsy&mdash;his ceaseless questions came to an end at last&mdash;he
      fell asleep. The wind outside sang its mournful winter-song; the tramp of
      passing footsteps, the roll of passing wheels on the road ceased in dreary
      silence. He slept on quietly. The firelight rose and fell on his wizen
      little face and his nervous, drooping hands. Mrs. Lecount had not pitied
      him yet. She began to pity him now. Her point was gained; her interest in
      his will was secured; he had put his future life, of his own accord, under
      her fostering care&mdash;the fire was comfortable; the circumstances were
      favorable to the growth of Christian feeling. &ldquo;Poor wretch!&rdquo; said Mrs.
      Lecount, looking at him with a grave compassion&mdash;&ldquo;poor wretch!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The dinner-hour roused him. He was cheerful at dinner; he reverted to the
      idea of the cheap little house in France; he smirked and simpered; and
      talked French to Mrs. Lecount, while the house-maid and Louisa waited,
      turn and turn about, under protest. When dinner was over, he returned to
      his comfortable chair before the fire, and Mrs. Lecount followed him. He
      resumed the conversation&mdash;which meant, in his case, repeating his
      questions. But he was not so quick and ready with them as he had been
      earlier in the day. They began to flag&mdash;they continued, at longer and
      longer intervals&mdash;they ceased altogether. Toward nine o&rsquo;clock he fell
      asleep again.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was not a quiet sleep this time. He muttered, and ground his teeth, and
      rolled his head from side to side of the chair. Mrs. Lecount purposely
      made noise enough to rouse him. He woke, with a vacant eye and a flushed
      cheek. He walked about the room restlessly, with a new idea in his mind&mdash;the
      idea of writing a terrible letter; a letter of eternal farewell to his
      wife. How was it to be written? In what language should he express his
      feelings? The powers of Shakespeare himself would be unequal to the
      emergency! He had been the victim of an outrage entirely without parallel.
      A wretch had crept into his bosom! A viper had hidden herself at his
      fireside! Where could words be found to brand her with the infamy she
      deserved? He stopped, with a suffocating sense in him of his own impotent
      rage&mdash;he stopped, and shook his fist tremulously in the empty air.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mrs. Lecount interfered with an energy and a resolution inspired by
      serious alarm. After the heavy strain that had been laid on his weakness
      already, such an outbreak of passionate agitation as was now bursting from
      him might be the destruction of his rest that night and of his strength to
      travel the next day. With infinite difficulty, with endless promises to
      return to the subject, and to advise him about it in the morning, she
      prevailed on him, at last, to go upstairs and compose himself for the
      night. She gave him her arm to assist him. On the way upstairs his
      attention, to her great relief, became suddenly absorbed by a new fancy.
      He remembered a certain warm and comfortable mixture of wine, eggs, sugar,
      and spices, which she had often been accustomed to make for him in former
      times, and which he thought he should relish exceedingly before he went to
      bed. Mrs. Lecount helped him on with his dressing-gown&mdash;then went
      down-stairs again to make his warm drink for him at the parlor fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      She rang the bell and ordered the necessary ingredients for the mixture,
      in Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s name. The servants, with the small ingenious malice of
      their race, brought up the materials one by one, and kept her waiting for
      each of them as long as possible. She had got the saucepan, and the spoon,
      and the tumbler, and the nutmeg-grater, and the wine&mdash;but not the
      egg, the sugar, or the spices&mdash;when she heard him above, walking
      backward and forward noisily in his room; exciting himself on the old
      subject again, beyond all doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went upstairs once more; but he was too quick for her&mdash;he heard
      her outside the door; and when she opened it, she found him in his chair,
      with his back cunningly turned toward her. Knowing him too well to attempt
      any remonstrance, she merely announced the speedy arrival of the warm
      drink and turned to leave the room. On her way out, she noticed a table in
      a corner, with an inkstand and a paper-case on it, and tried, without
      attracting his attention, to take the writing materials away. He was too
      quick for her again. He asked, angrily, if she doubted his promise. She
      put the writing materials back on the table, for fear of offending him,
      and left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      In half an hour more the mixture was ready. She carried it up to him,
      foaming and fragrant, in a large tumbler. &ldquo;He will sleep after this,&rdquo; she
      thought to herself, as she opened the door; &ldquo;I have made it stronger than
      usual on purpose.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He had changed his place. He was sitting at the table in the corner&mdash;still
      with his back to her, writing. This time his quick ears had not served
      him; this time she caught him in the fact.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, Mr. Noel! Mr. Noel!&rdquo; she said, reproachfully, &ldquo;what is your promise
      worth?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He made no answer. He was sitting with his left elbow on the table, and
      with his head resting on his left hand. His right hand lay back on the
      paper, with the pen lying loose in it. &ldquo;Your drink, Mr. Noel,&rdquo; she said,
      in a kinder tone, feeling unwilling to offend him. He took no notice of
      her. She went to the table to rouse him. Was he deep in thought?
    </p>
    <p>
      He was dead!
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE FIFTH SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Noel Vanstone to Mr. Loscombe.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Park Terrace, St. John&rsquo;s Wood, November 5th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;I came to London yesterday for the purpose of seeing a
      relative, leaving Mr. Vanstone at Baliol Cottage, and proposing to return
      to him in the course of the week. I reached London late last night, and
      drove to these lodgings, having written to secure accommodation
      beforehand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This morning&rsquo;s post has brought me a letter from my own maid, whom I left
      at Baliol Cottage, with instructions to write to me if anything
      extraordinary took place in my absence. You will find the girl&rsquo;s letter
      inclosed in this. I have had some experience of her; and I believe she is
      to be strictly depended on to tell the truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I purposely abstain from troubling you by any useless allusions to
      myself. When you have read my maid&rsquo;s letter, you will understand the shock
      which the news contained in it has caused me. I can only repeat that I
      place implicit belief in her statement. I am firmly persuaded that my
      husband&rsquo;s former housekeeper has found him out, has practiced on his
      weakness in my absence, and has prevailed on him to make another Will.
      From what I know of this woman, I feel no doubt that she has used her
      influence over Mr. Vanstone to deprive me, if possible, of all future
      interests in my husband&rsquo;s fortune.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under such circumstances as these, it is in the last degree important&mdash;for
      more reasons than I need mention here&mdash;that I should see Mr.
      Vanstone, and come to an explanation with him, at the earliest possible
      opportunity. You will find that my maid thoughtfully kept her letter open
      until the last moment before post-time&mdash;without, however, having any
      later news to give me than that Mrs. Lecount was to sleep at the cottage
      last night and that she and Mr. Vanstone were to leave together this
      morning. But for that last piece of intelligence, I should have been on my
      way back to Scotland before now. As it is, I cannot decide for myself what
      I ought to do next. My going back to Dumfries, after Mr. Vanstone has left
      it, seems like taking a journey for nothing &mdash;and my staying in
      London appears to be almost equally useless.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you kindly advise me in this difficulty? I will come to you at
      Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn at any time this afternoon or to-morrow which you may
      appoint. My next few hours are engaged. As soon as this letter is
      dispatched, I am going to Kensington, with the object of ascertaining
      whether certain doubts I feel about the means by which Mrs. Lecount may
      have accomplished her discovery are well founded or not. If you will let
      me have your answer by return of post, I will not fail to get back to St.
      John&rsquo;s Wood in time to receive it. Believe me, dear sir, yours sincerely,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN VANSTONE.&rdquo; II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn, November 5th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;Your letter and its inclosure have caused me great
      concern and surprise. Pressure of business allows me no hope of being able
      to see you either to-day or to-morrow morning. But if three o&rsquo;clock
      to-morrow afternoon will suit you, at that hour you will find me at your
      service.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I cannot pretend to offer a positive opinion until I know more of the
      particulars connected with this extraordinary business than I find
      communicated either in your letter or in your maid&rsquo;s. But with this
      reserve, I venture to suggest that your remaining in London until
      to-morrow may possibly lead to other results besides your consultation at
      my chambers. There is at least a chance that you or I may hear something
      further in this strange matter by the morning&rsquo;s post. I remain, dear
      madam, faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Noel Vanstone to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;November 5th, Two o&rsquo;Clock.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have just returned from Westmoreland House&mdash;after purposely
      leaving it in secret, and purposely avoiding you under your own roof. You
      shall know why I came, and why I went away. It is due to my remembrance of
      old times not to treat you like a stranger, although I can never again
      treat you like a friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I set forth on the third from the North to London. My only object in
      taking this long journey was to see Norah. I had been suffering for many
      weary weeks past such remorse as only miserable women like me can feel.
      Perhaps the suffering weakened me; perhaps it roused some old forgotten
      tenderness&mdash;God knows!&mdash;I can&rsquo;t explain it; I can only tell you
      that I began to think of Norah by day, and to dream of Norah by night,
      till I was almost heartbroken. I have no better reason than this to give
      for running all the risks which I ran, and coming to London to see her. I
      don&rsquo;t wish to claim more for myself than I deserve; I don&rsquo;t wish to tell
      you I was the reformed and repenting creature whom <i>you</i> might have
      approved. I had only one feeling in me that I know of. I wanted to put my
      arms round Norah&rsquo;s neck, and cry my heart out on Norah&rsquo;s bosom. Childish
      enough, I dare say. Something might have come of it; nothing might have
      come of it&mdash;who knows?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had no means of finding Norah without your assistance. However you
      might disapprove of what I had done, I thought you would not refuse to
      help me to find my sister. When I lay down last night in my strange bed, I
      said to myself, &lsquo;I will ask Miss Garth, for my father&rsquo;s sake and my
      mother&rsquo;s sake, to tell me.&rsquo; You don&rsquo;t know what a comfort I felt in that
      thought. How should you? What do good women like you know of miserable
      sinners like me? All you know is that you pray for us at church.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Well, I fell asleep happily that night&mdash;for the first time since my
      marriage. When the morning came, I paid the penalty of daring to be happy
      only for one night. When the morning came, a letter came with it, which
      told me that my bitterest enemy on earth (you have meddled sufficiently
      with my affairs to know what enemy I mean) had revenged herself on me in
      my absence. In following the impulse which led me to my sister, I had gone
      to my ruin.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The mischief was beyond all present remedy, when I received the news of
      it. Whatever had happened, whatever might happen, I made up my mind to
      persist in my resolution of seeing Norah before I did anything else. I
      suspected <i>you</i> of being concerned in the disaster which had
      overtaken me&mdash;because I felt positively certain at Aldborough that
      you and Mrs. Lecount had written to each other. But I never suspected
      Norah. If I lay on my death-bed at this moment I could say with a safe
      conscience I never suspected Norah.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So I went this morning to Westmoreland House to ask you for my sister&rsquo;s
      address, and to acknowledge plainly that I suspected you of being again in
      correspondence with Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When I inquired for you at the door, they told me you had gone out, but
      that you were expected back before long. They asked me if I would see your
      sister, who was then in the school-room. I desired that your sister should
      on no account be disturbed: my business was not with her, but with you. I
      begged to be allowed to wait in a room by myself until you returned.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They showed me into the double room on the ground-floor, divided by
      curtains&mdash;as it was when I last remember it. There was a fire in the
      outer division of the room, but none in the inner; and for that reason, I
      suppose, the curtains were drawn. The servant was very civil and attentive
      to me. I have learned to be thankful for civility and attention, and I
      spoke to her as cheerfully as I could. I said to her, &lsquo;I shall see Miss
      Garth here, as she comes up to the door, and I can beckon her in through
      the long window.&rsquo; The servant said I could do so, if you came that way,
      but that you let yourself in sometimes with your own key by the
      back-garden gate; and if you did this, she would take care to let you know
      of my visit. I mention these trifles, to show you that there was no
      pre-meditated deceit in my mind when I came to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I waited a weary time, and you never came: I don&rsquo;t know whether my
      impatience made me think so, or whether the large fire burning made the
      room really as hot as I felt it to be&mdash;I only know that, after a
      while, I passed through the curtains into the inner room, to try the
      cooler atmosphere.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I walked to the long window which leads into the back garden, to look
      out, and almost at the same time I heard the door opened&mdash;the door of
      the room I had just left, and your voice and the voice of some other
      woman, a stranger to me, talking. The stranger was one of the
      parlor-boarders, I dare say. I gathered from the first words you exchanged
      together, that you had met in the passage&mdash;she on her way downstairs,
      and you on your way in from the back garden. Her next question and your
      next answer informed me that this person was a friend of my sister&rsquo;s, who
      felt a strong interest in her, and who knew that you had just returned
      from a visit to Norah. So far, I only hesitated to show myself, because I
      shrank, in my painful situation, from facing a stranger. But when I heard
      my own name immediately afterward on your lips and on hers, then I
      purposely came nearer to the curtain between us, and purposely listened.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A mean action, you will say? Call it mean, if you like. What better can
      you expect from such a woman as I am?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You were always famous for your memory. There is no necessity for my
      repeating the words you spoke to your friend, and the words your friend
      spoke to you, hardly an hour since. When you read these lines, you will
      know, as well as I know, what those words told me. I ask for no
      particulars; I will take all your reasons and all your excuses for
      granted. It is enough for me to know that you and Mr. Pendril have been
      searching for me again, and that Norah is in the conspiracy this time, to
      reclaim me in spite of myself. It is enough for me to know that my letter
      to my sister has been turned into a trap to catch me, and that Mrs.
      Lecount&rsquo;s revenge has accomplished its object by means of information
      received from Norah&rsquo;s lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Shall I tell you what I suffered when I heard these things? No; it would
      only be a waste of time to tell you. Whatever I suffer, I deserve it&mdash;don&rsquo;t
      I?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I waited in that inner room&mdash;knowing my own violent temper, and not
      trusting myself to see you, after what I had heard&mdash;I waited in that
      inner room, trembling lest the servant should tell you of my visit before
      I could find an opportunity of leaving the house. No such misfortune
      happened. The servant, no doubt, heard the voices upstairs, and supposed
      that we had met each other in the passage. I don&rsquo;t know how long or how
      short a time it was before you left the room to go and take off your
      bonnet&mdash;you went, and your friend went with you. I raised the long
      window softly, and stepped into the back garden. The way by which you
      returned to the house was the way by which I left it. No blame attaches to
      the servant. As usual, where I am concerned, nobody is to blame but me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Time enough has passed now to quiet my mind a little. You know how strong
      I am? You remember how I used to fight against all my illnesses when I was
      a child? Now I am a woman, I fight against my miseries in the same way.
      Don&rsquo;t pity me, Miss Garth! Don&rsquo;t pity me!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no harsh feeling against Norah. The hope I had of seeing her is a
      hope taken from me; the consolation I had in writing to her is a
      consolation denied me for the future. I am cut to the heart; but I have no
      angry feeling toward my sister. She means well, poor soul&mdash;I dare say
      she means well. It would distress her, if she knew what has happened.
      Don&rsquo;t tell her. Conceal my visit, and burn my letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A last word to yourself and I have done:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I rightly understand my present situation, your spies are still
      searching for me to just as little purpose as they searched at York.
      Dismiss them&mdash;you are wasting your money to no purpose. If you
      discovered me to-morrow, what could you do? My position has altered. I am
      no longer the poor outcast girl, the vagabond public performer, whom you
      once hunted after. I have done what I told you I would do&mdash;I have
      made the general sense of propriety my accomplice this time. Do you know
      who I am? I am a respectable married woman, accountable for my actions to
      nobody under heaven but my husband. I have got a place in the world, and a
      name in the world, at last. Even the law, which is the friend of all you
      respectable people, has recognized my existence, and has become <i>my</i>
      friend too! The Archbishop of Canterbury gave me his license to be
      married, and the vicar of Aldborough performed the service. If I found
      your spies following me in the street, and if I chose to claim protection
      from them, the law would acknowledge my claim. You forget what wonders my
      wickedness has done for me. It has made Nobody&rsquo;s Child Somebody&rsquo;s Wife.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you will give these considerations their due weight; if you will exert
      your excellent common sense, I have no fear of being obliged to appeal to
      my newly-found friend and protector&mdash;the law. You will feel, by this
      time, that you have meddled with me at last to some purpose. I am
      estranged from Norah&mdash;I am discovered by my husband&mdash;I am
      defeated by Mrs. Lecount. You have driven me to the last extremity; you
      have strengthened me to fight the battle of my life with the resolution
      which only a lost and friendless woman can feel. Badly as your schemes
      have prospered, they have not proved totally useless after all!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no more to say. If you ever speak about me to Norah, tell her that
      a day may come when she will see me again&mdash;the day when we two
      sisters have recovered our natural rights; the day when I put Norah&rsquo;s
      fortune into Norah&rsquo;s hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Those are my last words. Remember them the next time you feel tempted to
      meddle with me again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN VANSTONE.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn, November 6th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;This morning&rsquo;s post has doubtless brought you the same
      shocking news which it has brought to me. You must know by this time that
      a terrible affliction has befallen you&mdash;the affliction of your
      husband&rsquo;s sudden death.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am on the point of starting for the North, to make all needful
      inquiries, and to perform whatever duties I may with propriety undertake,
      as solicitor to the deceased gentleman. Let me earnestly recommend you not
      to follow me to Baliol Cottage, until I have had time to write to you
      first, and to give you such advice as I cannot, through ignorance of all
      the circumstances, pretend to offer now. You may rely on my writing, after
      my arrival in Scotland, by the first post. I remain, dear madam,
      faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Pendril to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serle Street, November 6th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;I return you Mrs. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s letter. I can
      understand your mortification at the tone in which it is written, and your
      distress at the manner in which this unhappy woman has interpreted the
      conversation that she overheard at your house. I cannot honestly add that
      I lament what has happened. My opinion has never altered since the
      Combe-Raven time. I believe Mrs. Noel Vanstone to be one of the most
      reckless, desperate, and perverted women living; and any circumstances
      that estrange her from her sister are circumstances which I welcome, for
      her sister&rsquo;s sake.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There cannot be a moment&rsquo;s doubt on the course you ought to follow in
      this matter. Even Mrs. Noel Vanstone herself acknowledges the propriety of
      sparing her sister additional and unnecessary distress. By all means, keep
      Miss Vanstone in ignorance of the visit to Kensington, and of the letter
      which has followed it. It would be not only unwise, but absolutely cruel,
      to enlighten her. If we had any remedy to apply, or even any hope to
      offer, we might feel some hesitation in keeping our secret. But there is
      no remedy, and no hope. Mrs. Noel Vanstone is perfectly justified in the
      view she takes of her own position. Neither you nor I can assert the
      smallest right to control her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have already taken the necessary measures for putting an end to our
      useless inquiries. In a few days I will write to Miss Vanstone, and will
      do my best to tranquilize her mind on the subject of her sister. If I can
      find no sufficient excuse to satisfy her, it will be better she should
      think we have discovered nothing than that she should know the truth.
      Believe me most truly yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;WILLIAM PENDRIL.&rdquo; VI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn, November 15th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;In compliance with your request, I now proceed to
      communicate to you in writing what (but for the calamity which has so
      recently befallen you) I should have preferred communicating by word of
      mouth. Be pleased to consider this letter as strictly confidential between
      yourself and me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I inclose, as you desire, a copy of the Will executed by your late
      husband on the third of this month. There can be no question of the
      genuineness of the original document. I protested, as a matter of form,
      against Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s solicitor assuming a position of authority at
      Baliol Cottage. But he took the position, nevertheless; acting as legal
      representative of the sole Executor under the second Will. I am bound to
      say I should have done the same myself in his place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The serious question follows, What can we do for the best in your
      interests? The Will executed under my professional superintendence, on the
      thirtieth of September last, is at present superseded and revoked by the
      second and later Will, executed on the third of November. Can we dispute
      this document?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I doubt the possibility of disputing the new Will on the face of it. It
      is no doubt irregularly expressed; but it is dated, signed, and witnessed
      as the law directs; and the perfectly simple and straightforward
      provisions that it contains are in no respect, that I can see, technically
      open to attack.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This being the case, can we dispute the Will on the ground that it has
      been executed when the Testator was not in a fit state to dispose of his
      own property? or when the Testator was subjected to undue and improper
      influence?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the first of these cases, the medical evidence would put an obstacle
      in our way. We cannot assert that previous illness had weakened the
      Testator&rsquo;s mind. It is clear that he died suddenly, as the doctors had all
      along declared he would die, of disease of the heart. He was out walking
      in his garden, as usual, on the day of his death; he ate a hearty dinner;
      none of the persons in his service noticed any change in him; he was a
      little more irritable with them than usual, but that was all. It is
      impossible to attack the state of his faculties: there is no case to go
      into court with, so far.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can we declare that he acted under undue influence; or, in plainer terms,
      under the influence of Mrs. Lecount?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There are serious difficulties, again, in the way of taking this course.
      We cannot assert, for example, that Mrs. Lecount has assumed a place in
      the will which she has no fair claim to occupy. She has cunningly limited
      her own legacy, not only to what is fairly due her, but to what the late
      Mr. Michael Vanstone himself had the intention of leaving her. If I were
      examined on the subject, I should be compelled to acknowledge that I had
      heard him express this intention myself. It is only the truth to say that
      I have heard him express it more than once. There is no point of attack in
      Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s legacy, and there is no point of attack in your late
      husband&rsquo;s choice of an executor. He has made the wise choice, and the
      natural choice, of the oldest and trustiest friend he had in the world.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One more consideration remains&mdash;the most important which I have yet
      approached, and therefore the consideration which I have reserved to the
      last. On the thirtieth of September, the Testator executes a will, leaving
      his widow sole executrix, with a legacy of eighty thousand pounds. On the
      third of November following, he expressly revokes this will, and leaves
      another in its stead, in which his widow is never once mentioned, and in
      which the whole residue of his estate, after payment of one comparatively
      trifling legacy, is left to a friend.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It rests entirely with you to say whether any valid reason can or can not
      be produced to explain such an extraordinary proceeding as this. If no
      reason can be assigned&mdash;and I know of none myself&mdash;I think we
      have a point here which deserves our careful consideration; for it may be
      a point which is open to attack. Pray understand that I am now appealing
      to you solely as a lawyer, who is obliged to look all possible
      eventualities in the face. I have no wish to intrude on your private
      affairs; I have no wish to write a word which could be construed into any
      indirect reflection on yourself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you tell me that, so far as you know, your husband capriciously struck
      you out of his will, without assignable reason or motive for doing so, and
      without other obvious explanation of his conduct than that he acted in
      this matter entirely under the influence of Mrs. Lecount, I will
      immediately take Counsel&rsquo;s opinion touching the propriety of disputing the
      will on this ground. If, on the other hand, you tell me that there are
      reasons (known to yourself, though unknown to me) for not taking the
      course I propose, I will accept that intimation without troubling you,
      unless you wish it, to explain yourself further. In this latter event, I
      will write to you again; for I shall then have something more to say,
      which may greatly surprise you, on the subject of the Will.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; VII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Noel Vanstone to Mr. Loscombe.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;November 16th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;Accept my best thanks for the kindness and consideration
      with which you have treated me; and let the anxieties under which I am now
      suffering plead my excuse, if I reply to your letter without ceremony, in
      the fewest possible words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have my own reasons for not hesitating to answer your question in the
      negative. It is impossible for us to go to law, as you propose, on the
      subject of the Will.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Believe me, dear sir, yours gratefully,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN VANSTONE.&rdquo; VIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn. November 17th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter,
      answering my proposal in the negative, for reasons of your own. Under
      these circumstances&mdash;on which I offer no comment&mdash;I beg to
      perform my promise of again communicating with you on the subject of your
      late husband&rsquo;s Will.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Be so kind as to look at your copy of the document. You will find that
      the clause which devises the whole residue of your husband&rsquo;s estate to
      Admiral Bartram ends in these terms: <i>to be by him applied to such uses
      as he may think fit.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Simple as they may seem to you, these are very remarkable words. In the
      first place, no practical lawyer would have used them in drawing your
      husband&rsquo;s will. In the second place, they are utterly useless to serve any
      plain straightforward purpose. The legacy is left unconditionally to the
      admiral; and in the same breath he is told that he may do what he likes
      with it! The phrase points clearly to one of two conclusions. It has
      either dropped from the writer&rsquo;s pen in pure ignorance, or it has been
      carefully set where it appears to serve the purpose of a snare. I am
      firmly persuaded that the latter explanation is the right one. The words
      are expressly intended to mislead some person&mdash;yourself in all
      probability&mdash;and the cunning which has put them to that use is a
      cunning which (as constantly happens when uninstructed persons meddle with
      law) has overreached itself. My thirty years&rsquo; experience reads those words
      in a sense exactly opposite to the sense which they are intended to
      convey. I say that Admiral Bartram is <i>not</i> free to apply his legacy
      to such purposes as he may think fit; I believe he is privately controlled
      by a supplementary document in the shape of a Secret Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can easily explain to you what I mean by a Secret Trust. It is usually
      contained in the form of a letter from a Testator to his Executors,
      privately informing them of testamentary intentions on his part which he
      has not thought proper openly to acknowledge in his will. I leave you a
      hundred pounds; and I write a private letter enjoining you, on taking the
      legacy, not to devote it to your own purposes, but to give it to some
      third person, whose name I have my own reasons for not mentioning in my
      will. That is a Secret Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I am right in my own persuasion that such a document as I here
      describe is at this moment in Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s possession&mdash;a
      persuasion based, in the first instance, on the extraordinary words that I
      have quoted to you; and, in the second instance, on purely legal
      considerations with which it is needless to incumber my letter&mdash;if I
      am right in this opinion, the discovery of the Secret Trust would be, in
      all probability, a most important discovery to your interests. I will not
      trouble you with technical reasons, or with references to my experience in
      these matters, which only a professional man could understand. I will
      merely say that I don&rsquo;t give up your cause as utterly lost, until the
      conviction now impressed on my own mind is proved to be wrong.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can add no more, while this important question still remains involved
      in doubt; neither can I suggest any means of solving that doubt. If the
      existence of the Trust was proved, and if the nature of the stipulations
      contained in it was made known to me, I could then say positively what the
      legal chances were of your being able to set up a Case on the strength of
      it: and I could also tell you whether I should or should not feel
      justified in personally undertaking that Case under a private arrangement
      with yourself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As things are, I can make no arrangement, and offer no advice. I can only
      put you confidentially in possession of my private opinion, leaving you
      entirely free to draw your own inferences from it, and regretting that I
      cannot write more confidently and more definitely than I have written
      here. All that I could conscientiously say on this very difficult and
      delicate subject, I have said.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Believe me, dear madam, faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P.S.&mdash;I omitted one consideration in my last letter, which I may
      mention here, in order to show you that no point in connection with the
      case has escaped me. If it had been possible to show that Mr. Vanstone was
      <i>domiciled</i> in Scotland at the time of his death, we might have
      asserted your interests by means of the Scotch law, which does not allow a
      husband the power of absolutely disinheriting his wife. But it is
      impossible to assert that Mr. Vanstone was legally domiciled in Scotland.
      He came there as a visitor only; he occupied a furnished house for the
      season; and he never expressed, either by word or deed, the slightest
      intention of settling permanently in the North.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      IX.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Noel Vanstone to Mr. Loscombe.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR SIR&mdash;I have read your letter more than once, with the deepest
      interest and attention; and the oftener I read it, the more firmly I
      believe that there is really such a Letter as you mention in Admiral
      Bartram&rsquo;s hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is my interest that the discovery should be made, and I at once
      acknowledge to you that I am determined to find the means of secretly and
      certainly making it. My resolution rests on other motives than the motives
      which you might naturally suppose would influence me. I only tell you
      this, in case you feel inclined to remonstrate. There is good reason for
      what I say, when I assure you that remonstrance will be useless.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I ask for no assistance in this matter; I will trouble nobody for advice.
      You shall not be involved in any rash proceedings on my part. Whatever
      danger there may be, I will risk it. Whatever delays may happen, I will
      bear them patiently. I am lonely and friendless, and surely troubled in
      mind, but I am strong enough to win my way through worse trials than
      these. My spirits will rise again, and my time will come. If that Secret
      Trust is in Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s possession&mdash;when you next see me, you
      shall see me with it in my own hands. Yours gratefully,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MAGDALEN VANSTONE.&rdquo; 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE SIXTH SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      ST. JOHN&rsquo;S WOOD
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      IT wanted little more than a fortnight to Christmas; but the weather
      showed no signs yet of the frost and snow, conventionally associated with
      the coming season. The atmosphere was unnaturally warm, and the old year
      was dying feebly in sapping rain and enervating mist.
    </p>
    <p>
      Toward the close of the December afternoon, Magdalen sat alone in the
      lodging which she had occupied since her arrival in London. The fire
      burned sluggishly in the narrow little grate; the view of the wet houses
      and soaking gardens opposite was darkening fast; and the bell of the
      suburban muffin-boy tinkled in the distance drearily. Sitting close over
      the fire, with a little money lying loose in her lap, Magdalen absently
      shifted the coins to and fro on the smooth surface of her dress,
      incessantly altering their positions toward each other, as if they were
      pieces of a &ldquo;child&rsquo;s puzzle&rdquo; which she was trying to put together. The dim
      fire-light flaming up on her faintly from time to time showed changes
      which would have told their own tale sadly to friends of former days. Her
      dress had become loose through the wasting of her figure; but she had not
      cared to alter it. The old restlessness in her movements, the old mobility
      in her expression, appeared no more. Her face passively maintained its
      haggard composure, its changeless unnatural calm. Mr. Pendril might have
      softened his hard sentence on her, if he had seen her now; and Mrs.
      Lecount, in the plenitude of her triumph, might have pitied her fallen
      enemy at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      Hardly four months had passed since the wedding-day at Aldborough, and the
      penalty for that day was paid already&mdash;paid in unavailing remorse, in
      hopeless isolation, in irremediable defeat! Let this be said for her; let
      the truth which has been told of the fault be told of the expiation as
      well. Let it be recorded of her that she enjoyed no secret triumph on the
      day of her success. The horror of herself with which her own act had
      inspired her, had risen to its climax when the design of her marriage was
      achieved. She had never suffered in secret as she suffered when the
      Combe-Raven money was left to her in her husband&rsquo;s will. She had never
      felt the means taken to accomplish her end so unutterably degrading to
      herself, as she felt them on the day when the end was reached. Out of that
      feeling had grown the remorse which had hurried her to seek pardon and
      consolation in her sister&rsquo;s love. Never since it had first entered her
      heart, never since she had first felt it sacred to her at her father&rsquo;s
      grave, had the Purpose to which she had vowed herself, so nearly lost its
      hold on her as at this time. Never might Norah&rsquo;s influence have achieved
      such good as on the day when that influence was lost&mdash;the day when
      the fatal words were overheard at Miss Garth&rsquo;s&mdash;the day when the
      fatal letter from Scotland told of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s revenge.
    </p>
    <p>
      The harm was done; the chance was gone. Time and Hope alike had both
      passed her by.
    </p>
    <p>
      Faintly and more faintly the inner voices now pleaded with her to pause on
      the downward way. The discovery which had poisoned her heart with its
      first distrust of her sister; the tidings which had followed it of her
      husband&rsquo;s death; the sting of Mrs. Lecount&rsquo;s triumph, felt through all,
      had done their work. The remorse which had embittered her married life was
      deadened now to a dull despair. It was too late to make the atonement of
      confession&mdash;too late to lay bare to the miserable husband the deeper
      secrets that had once lurked in the heart of the miserable wife. Innocent
      of all thought of the hideous treachery which Mrs. Lecount had imputed to
      her&mdash;she was guilty of knowing how his health was broken when she
      married him; guilty of knowing, when he left her the Combe-Raven money,
      that the accident of a moment, harmless to other men, might place his life
      in jeopardy, and effect her release. His death had told her this&mdash;had
      told her plainly what she had shrunk, in his lifetime, from openly
      acknowledging to herself. From the dull torment of that reproach; from the
      dreary wretchedness of doubting everybody, even to Norah herself; from the
      bitter sense of her defeated schemes; from the blank solitude of her
      friendless life&mdash;what refuge was left? But one refuge now. She turned
      to the relentless Purpose which was hurrying her to her ruin, and cried to
      it with the daring of her despair&mdash;Drive me on!
    </p>
    <p>
      For days and days together she had bent her mind on the one object which
      occupied it since she had received the lawyer&rsquo;s letter. For days and days
      together she had toiled to meet the first necessity of her position&mdash;to
      find a means of discovering the Secret Trust. There was no hope, this
      time, of assistance from Captain Wragge. Long practice had made the old
      militia-man an adept in the art of vanishing. The plow of the moral
      agriculturist left no furrows&mdash;not a trace of him was to be found!
      Mr. Loscombe was too cautious to commit himself to an active course of any
      kind; he passively maintained his opinions and left the rest to his client&mdash;-he
      desired to know nothing until the Trust was placed in his hands.
      Magdalen&rsquo;s interests were now in Magdalen&rsquo;s own sole care. Risk or no
      risk, what she did next she must do by herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      The prospect had not daunted her. Alone she had calculated the chances
      that might be tried. Alone she was now determined to make the attempt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The time has come,&rdquo; she said to herself, as she sat over the fire. &ldquo;I
      must sound Louisa first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She collected the scattered coins in her lap, and placed them in a little
      heap on the table, then rose and rang the bell. The landlady answered it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is my servant downstairs?&rdquo; inquired Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am. She is having her tea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When she has done, say I want her up here. Wait a moment. You will find
      your money on the table&mdash;the money I owe you for last week. Can you
      find it? or would you like to have a candle?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s rather dark, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen lit a candle. &ldquo;What notice must I give you,&rdquo; she asked, as she
      put the candle on the table, &ldquo;before I leave?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A week is the usual notice, ma&rsquo;am. I hope you have no objection to make
      to the house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;None whatever. I only ask the question, because I may be obliged to leave
      these lodgings rather sooner than I anticipated. Is the money right?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite right, ma&rsquo;am. Here is your receipt.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you. Don&rsquo;t forget to send Louisa to me as soon as she has done her
      tea.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The landlady withdrew. As soon as she was alone again, Magdalen
      extinguished the candle, and drew an empty chair close to her own chair on
      the hearth. This done, she resumed her former place, and waited until
      Louisa appeared. There was doubt in her face as she sat looking
      mechanically into the fire. &ldquo;A poor chance,&rdquo; she thought to herself; &ldquo;but,
      poor as it is, a chance that I must try.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In ten minutes more, Louisa&rsquo;s meek knock was softly audible outside. She
      was surprised, on entering the room, to find no other light in it than the
      light of the fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you have the candles, ma&rsquo;am?&rdquo; she inquired, respectfully.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We will have candles if you wish for them yourself,&rdquo; replied Magdalen;
      &ldquo;not otherwise. I have something to say to you. When I have said it, you
      shall decide whether we sit together in the dark or in the light.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa waited near the door, and listened to those strange words in silent
      astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come here,&rdquo; said Magdalen, pointing to the empty chair; &ldquo;come here and
      sit down.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa advanced, and timidly removed the chair from its position at her
      mistress&rsquo;s side. Magdalen instantly drew it back again. &ldquo;No!&rdquo; she said.
      &ldquo;Come closer&mdash;come close by me.&rdquo; After a moment&rsquo;s hesitation, Louisa
      obeyed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I ask you to sit near me,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen, &ldquo;because I wish to speak to
      you on equal terms. Whatever distinctions there might once have been
      between us are now at an end. I am a lonely woman thrown helpless on my
      own resources, without rank or place in the world. I may or may not keep
      you as my friend. As mistress and maid the connection between us must come
      to an end.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, ma&rsquo;am, don&rsquo;t, don&rsquo;t say that!&rdquo; pleaded Louisa, faintly.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen sorrowfully and steadily went on.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you first came to me,&rdquo; she resumed, &ldquo;I thought I should not like
      you. I have learned to like you&mdash;I have learned to be grateful to
      you. From first to last you have been faithful and good to me. The least I
      can do in return is not to stand in the way of your future prospects.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t send me away, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; said Louisa, imploringly. &ldquo;If you can only
      help me with a little money now and then, I&rsquo;ll wait for my wages&mdash;I
      will, indeed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen took her hand and went on, as sorrowfully and as steadily as
      before.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My future life is all darkness, all uncertainty,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;The next
      step I may take may lead me to my prosperity or may lead me to my ruin.
      Can I ask you to share such a prospect as this? If your future was as
      uncertain as mine is&mdash;if you, too, were a friendless woman thrown on
      the world&mdash;my conscience might be easy in letting you cast your lot
      with mine. I might accept your attachment, for I might feel I was not
      wronging you. How can I feel this in your case? You have a future to look
      to. You are an excellent servant; you can get another place&mdash;a far
      better place than mine. You can refer to me; and if the character I give
      is not considered sufficient, you can refer to the mistress you served
      before me&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At the instant when that reference to the girl&rsquo;s last employer escaped
      Magdalen&rsquo;s lips, Louisa snatched her hand away and started up affrightedly
      from her chair. There was a moment&rsquo;s silence. Both mistress and maid were
      equally taken by surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen was the first to recover herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it getting too dark?&rdquo; she asked, significantly. &ldquo;Are you going to
      light the candles, after all?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa drew back into the dimmest corner of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You suspect me, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; she answered out of the darkness, in a breathless
      whisper. &ldquo;Who has told you? How did you find out&mdash;?&rdquo; She stopped, and
      burst into tears. &ldquo;I deserve your suspicion,&rdquo; she said, struggling to
      compose herself. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t deny it to <i>you</i>. You have treated me so
      kindly; you have made me so fond of you! Forgive me, Mrs. Vanstone&mdash;I
      am a wretch; I have deceived you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come here and sit down by me again,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;Come&mdash;or I will
      get up myself and bring you back.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa slowly returned to her place. Dim as the fire-light was, she seemed
      to fear it. She held her handkerchief over her face, and shrank from her
      mistress as she seated herself again in the chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are wrong in thinking that any one has betrayed you to me,&rdquo; said
      Magdalen. &ldquo;All that I know of you is, what your own looks and ways have
      told me. You have had some secret trouble weighing on your mind ever since
      you have been in my service. I confess I have spoken with the wish to find
      out more of you and your past life than I have found out yet&mdash;not
      because I am curious, but because I have my secret troubles too. Are you
      an unhappy woman, like me? If you are, I will take you into my confidence.
      If you have nothing to tell me&mdash;if you choose to keep your secret&mdash;I
      don&rsquo;t blame you; I only say, Let us part. I won&rsquo;t ask how you have
      deceived me. I will only remember that you have been an honest and
      faithful and competent servant while I have employed you; and I will say
      as much in your favor to any new mistress you like to send to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She waited for the reply. For a moment, and only for a moment, Louisa
      hesitated. The girl&rsquo;s nature was weak, but not depraved. She was honestly
      attached to her mistress; and she spoke with a courage which Magdalen had
      not expected from her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you send me away, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t take my character from
      you till I have told you the truth; I won&rsquo;t return your kindness by
      deceiving you a second time. Did my master ever tell you how he engaged
      me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No. I never asked him, and he never told me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He engaged me, ma&rsquo;am, with a written character&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The character was a false one.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen drew back in amazement. The confession she heard was not the
      confession she had anticipated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did your mistress refuse to give you a character?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Why?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa dropped on her knees and hid her face in her mistress&rsquo;s lap. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
      ask me!&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a miserable, degraded creature; I&rsquo;m not fit to be
      in the same room with you!&rdquo; Magdalen bent over her, and whispered a
      question in her ear. Louisa whispered back the one sad word of reply.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has he deserted you?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, after waiting a moment, and
      thinking first.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you love him?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dearly.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The remembrance of her own loveless marriage stung Magdalen to the quick.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake, don&rsquo;t kneel to <i>me!</i>&rdquo; she cried, passionately. &ldquo;If
      there is a degraded woman in this room, I am the woman&mdash;not you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She raised the girl by main force from her knees, and put her back in the
      chair. They both waited a little in silence. Keeping her hand on Louisa&rsquo;s
      shoulder, Magdalen seated herself again, and looked with unutterable
      bitterness of sorrow into the dying fire. &ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; she thought, &ldquo;what happy
      women there are in the world! Wives who love their husbands! Mothers who
      are not ashamed to own their children! Are you quieter?&rdquo; she asked, gently
      addressing Louisa once more. &ldquo;Can you answer me, if I ask you something
      else? Where is the child?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The child is out at nurse.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Does the father help to support it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He does all he can, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What is he? Is he in service? Is he in a trade?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;His father is a master-carpenter&mdash;he works in his father&rsquo;s yard.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If he has got work, why has he not married you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is his father&rsquo;s fault, ma&rsquo;am&mdash;not his. His father has no pity on
      us. He would be turned out of house and home if he married me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can he get no work elsewhere?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s hard to get good work in London, ma&rsquo;am. There are so many in London&mdash;they
      take the bread out of each other&rsquo;s mouths. If we had only had the money to
      emigrate, he would have married me long since.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would he marry you if you had the money now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sure he would, ma&rsquo;am. He could get plenty of work in Australia, and
      double and treble the wages he gets here. He is trying hard, and I am
      trying hard, to save a little toward it&mdash;I put by all I can spare
      from my child. But it is so little! If we live for years to come, there
      seems no hope for us. I know I have done wrong every way&mdash;I know I
      don&rsquo;t deserve to be happy. But how could I let my child suffer?&mdash;I
      was obliged to go to service. My mistress was hard on me, and my health
      broke down in trying to live by my needle. I would never have deceived
      anybody by a false character, if there had been another chance for me. I
      was alone and helpless, ma&rsquo;am; and I can only ask you to forgive me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ask better women than I am,&rdquo; said Magdalen, sadly. &ldquo;I am only fit to feel
      for you, and I do feel for you with all my heart. In your place I should
      have gone into service with a false character, too. Say no more of the
      past&mdash;you don&rsquo;t know how you hurt me in speaking of it. Talk of the
      future. I think I can help you, and do you no harm. I think you can help
      me, and do me the greatest of all services in return. Wait, and you shall
      hear what I mean. Suppose you were married&mdash;how much would it cost
      for you and your husband to emigrate?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa mentioned the cost of a steerage passage to Australia for a man and
      his wife. She spoke in low, hopeless tones. Moderate as the sum was, it
      looked like unattainable wealth in her eyes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen started in her chair, and took the girl&rsquo;s hand once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Louisa!&rdquo; she said, earnestly; &ldquo;if I gave you the money, what would you do
      for me in return?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The proposal seemed to strike Louisa speechless with astonishment. She
      trembled violently, and said nothing. Magdalen repeated her words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, ma&rsquo;am, do you mean it?&rdquo; said the girl. &ldquo;Do you really mean it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; replied Magdalen; &ldquo;I really mean it. What would you do for me in
      return?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do?&rdquo; repeated Louisa. &ldquo;Oh what is there I would <i>not</i> do!&rdquo; She tried
      to kiss her mistress&rsquo;s hand; but Magdalen would not permit it. She
      resolutely, almost roughly, drew her hand away.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am laying you under no obligation,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;We are serving each
      other&mdash;that is all. Sit quiet, and let me think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For the next ten minutes there was silence in the room. At the end of that
      time Magdalen took out her watch and held it close to the grate. There was
      just firelight enough to show her the hour. It was close on six o&rsquo;clock.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you composed enough to go downstairs and deliver a message?&rdquo; she
      asked, rising from her chair as she spoke to Louisa again. &ldquo;It is a very
      simple message&mdash;it is only to tell the boy that I want a cab as soon
      as he can get me one. I must go out immediately. You shall know why later
      in the evening. I have much more to say to you; but there is no time to
      say it now. When I am gone, bring your work up here, and wait for my
      return. I shall be back before bed-time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Without another word of explanation, she hurriedly lit a candle and
      withdrew into the bedroom to put on her bonnet and shawl.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      BETWEEN nine and ten o&rsquo;clock the same evening, Louisa, waiting anxiously,
      heard the long-expected knock at the house door. She ran downstairs at
      once and let her mistress in.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s face was flushed. She showed far more agitation on returning to
      the house than she had shown on leaving it. &ldquo;Keep your place at the
      table,&rdquo; she said to Louisa, impatiently; &ldquo;but lay aside your work. I want
      you to attend carefully to what I am going to say.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa obeyed. Magdalen seated herself at the opposite side of the table,
      and moved the candles, so as to obtain a clear and uninterrupted view of
      her servant&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you noticed a respectable elderly woman,&rdquo; she began, abruptly, &ldquo;who
      has been here once or twice in the last fortnight to pay me a visit?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am; I think I let her in the second time she came. An elderly
      person named Mrs. Attwood?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;That is the person I mean. Mrs. Attwood is Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s housekeeper;
      not the housekeeper at his private residence, but the housekeeper at his
      offices in Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn. I promised to go and drink tea with her some
      evening this week, and I have been to-night. It is strange of me, is it
      not, to be on these familiar terms with a woman in Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s
      situation?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa made no answer in words. Her face spoke for her: she could hardly
      avoid thinking it strange.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had a motive for making friends with Mrs. Attwood,&rdquo; Magdalen went on.
      &ldquo;She is a widow, with a large family of daughters. Her daughters are all
      in service. One of them is an under-housemaid in the service of Admiral
      Bartram, at St. Crux-in-the-Marsh. I found that out from Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s
      master; and as soon as I arrived at the discovery, I privately determined
      to make Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s acquaintance. Stranger still, is it not?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa began to look a little uneasy. Her mistress&rsquo;s manner was at
      variance with her mistress&rsquo;s words&mdash;it was plainly suggestive of
      something startling to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What attraction Mrs. Attwood finds in my society,&rdquo; Magdalen continued, &ldquo;I
      cannot presume to say. I can only tell you she has seen better days; she
      is an educated person; and she may like my society on that account. At any
      rate, she has readily met my advances toward her. What attraction I find
      in this good woman, on my side, is soon told. I have a great curiosity&mdash;an
      unaccountable curiosity, you will think&mdash;about the present course of
      household affairs at St. Crux-in-the-Marsh. Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s daughter is a
      good girl, and constantly writes to her mother. Her mother is proud of the
      letters and proud of the girl, and is ready enough to talk about her
      daughter and her daughter&rsquo;s place. That is Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s attraction to <i>me.</i>
      You understand, so far?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Yes&mdash;Louisa understood. Magdalen went on. &ldquo;Thanks to Mrs. Attwood and
      Mrs. Attwood&rsquo;s daughter,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;I know some curious particulars
      already of the household at St. Crux. Servants&rsquo; tongues and servants&rsquo;
      letters&mdash;as I need not tell <i>you</i>&mdash;are oftener occupied
      with their masters and mistresses than their masters and mistresses
      suppose. The only mistress at St. Crux is the housekeeper. But there is a
      master&mdash;Admiral Bartram. He appears to be a strange old man, whose
      whims and fancies amuse his servants as well as his friends. One of his
      fancies (the only one we need trouble ourselves to notice) is, that he had
      men enough about him when he was living at sea, and that now he is living
      on shore, he will be waited on by women-servants alone. The one man in the
      house is an old sailor, who has been all his life with his master&mdash;he
      is a kind of pensioner at St. Crux, and has little or nothing to do with
      the housework. The other servants, indoors, are all women; and instead of
      a footman to wait on him at dinner, the admiral has a parlor-maid. The
      parlor-maid now at St. Crux is engaged to be married, and as soon as her
      master can suit himself she is going away. These discoveries I made some
      days since. But when I saw Mrs. Attwood to-night, she had received another
      letter from her daughter in the interval, and that letter has helped me to
      find out something more. The housekeeper is at her wits&rsquo; end to find a new
      servant. Her master insists on youth and good looks&mdash;he leaves
      everything else to the housekeeper&mdash;but he will have that. All the
      inquiries made in the neighborhood have failed to produce the sort of
      parlor-maid whom the admiral wants. If nothing can be done in the next
      fortnight or three weeks, the housekeeper will advertise in the <i>Times</i>,
      and will come to London herself to see the applicants, and to make strict
      personal inquiry into their characters.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa looked at her mistress more attentively than ever. The expression
      of perplexity left her face, and a shade of disappointment appeared there
      in its stead. &ldquo;Bear in mind what I have said,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen; &ldquo;and wait
      a minute more, while I ask you some questions. Don&rsquo;t think you understand
      me yet&mdash;I can assure you, you don&rsquo;t understand me. Have you always
      lived in service as lady&rsquo;s maid?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you ever lived as parlor-maid?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only in one place, ma&rsquo;am, and not for long there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose you lived long enough to learn your duties?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What were your duties besides waiting at table?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had to show visitors in.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; and what else?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I had the plate and the glass to look after; and the table-linen was all
      under my care. I had to answer all the bells, except in the bedrooms.
      There were other little odds and ends sometimes to do&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But your regular duties were the duties you have just mentioned?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How long ago is it since you lived in service as a parlor-maid?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A little better than two years, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose you have not forgotten how to wait at table, and clean plate,
      and the rest of it, in that time?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      At this question Louisa&rsquo;s attention, which had been wandering more and
      more during the progress of Magdalen&rsquo;s inquiries, wandered away
      altogether. Her gathering anxieties got the better of her discretion, and
      even of her timidity. Instead of answering her mistress, she suddenly and
      confusedly ventured on a question of her own.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg your pardon, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Did you mean me to offer for the
      parlor-maid&rsquo;s place at St. Crux?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You?&rdquo; replied Magdalen. &ldquo;Certainly not! Have you forgotten what I said to
      you in this room before I went out? I mean you to be married, and go to
      Australia with your husband and your child. You have not waited as I told
      you, to hear me explain myself. You have drawn your own conclusions, and
      you have drawn them wrong. I asked a question just now, which you have not
      answered&mdash;I asked if you had forgotten your parlor-maid&rsquo;s duties?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Oh, no, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; Louisa had replied rather unwillingly thus far. She
      answered readily and confidently now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Could you teach the duties to another servant?&rdquo; asked Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am&mdash;easily, if she was quick and attentive.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Could you teach the duties to Me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa started, and changed color. &ldquo;You, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; she exclaimed, half in
      incredulity, half in alarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;Could you qualify me to take the parlor-maid&rsquo;s
      place at St. Crux?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Plain as those words were, the bewilderment which they produced in
      Louisa&rsquo;s mind seemed to render her incapable of comprehending her
      mistress&rsquo;s proposal. &ldquo;You, ma&rsquo;am!&rdquo; she repeated, vacantly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I shall perhaps help you to understand this extraordinary project of
      mine,&rdquo; said Magdalen, &ldquo;if I tell you plainly what the object of it is. Do
      you remember what I said to you about Mr. Vanstone&rsquo;s will when you came
      here from Scotland to join me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, ma&rsquo;am. You told me you had been left out of the will altogether. I&rsquo;m
      sure my fellow-servant would never have been one of the witnesses if she
      had known&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Never mind that now. I don&rsquo;t blame your fellow-servant&mdash;I blame
      nobody but Mrs. Lecount. Let me go on with what I was saying. It is not at
      all certain that Mrs. Lecount can do me the mischief which Mrs. Lecount
      intended. There is a chance that my lawyer, Mr. Loscombe, may be able to
      gain me what is fairly my due, in spite of the will. The chance turns on
      my discovering a letter which Mr. Loscombe believes, and which I believe,
      to be kept privately in Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s possession. I have not the least
      hope of getting at that letter if I make the attempt in my own person.
      Mrs. Lecount has poisoned the admiral&rsquo;s mind against me, and Mr. Vanstone
      has given him a secret to keep from me. If I wrote to him, he would not
      answer my letter. If I went to his house, the door would be closed in my
      face. I must find my way into St. Crux as a stranger&mdash;I must be in a
      position to look about the house, unsuspected&mdash;I must be there with
      plenty of time on my hands. All the circumstances are in my favor, if I am
      received into the house as a servant; and as a servant I mean to go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But you are a lady, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; objected Louisa, in the greatest perplexity.
      &ldquo;The servants at St. Crux would find you out.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am not at all afraid of their finding me out,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I know
      how to disguise myself in other people&rsquo;s characters more cleverly than you
      suppose. Leave me to face the chances of discovery&mdash;that is my risk.
      Let us talk of nothing now but what concerns <i>you.</i> Don&rsquo;t decide yet
      whether you will, or will not, give me the help I want. Wait, and hear
      first what the help is. You are quick and clever at your needle. Can you
      make me the sort of gown which it is proper for a servant to wear&mdash;and
      can you alter one of my best silk dresses so as to make it fit yourself
      &mdash;in a week&rsquo;s time?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think I could get them done in a week, ma&rsquo;am. But why am I to wear&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait a little, and you will see. I shall give the landlady her week&rsquo;s
      notice to-morrow. In the interval, while you are making the dresses, I can
      be learning the parlor-maid&rsquo;s duties. When the house-servant here has
      brought up the dinner, and when you and I are alone in the room&mdash;instead
      of your waiting on me, as usual, I will wait on you. (I am quite serious;
      don&rsquo;t interrupt me!) Whatever I can learn besides, without hindering you,
      I will practice carefully at every opportunity. When the week is over, and
      the dresses are done, we will leave this place, and go into other lodgings&mdash;you
      as the mistress and I as the maid.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I should be found out, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; interposed Louisa, trembling at the
      prospect before her. &ldquo;I am not a lady.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And I am,&rdquo; said Magdalen, bitterly. &ldquo;Shall I tell you what a lady is? A
      lady is a woman who wears a silk gown, and has a sense of her own
      importance. I shall put the gown on your back, and the sense in your head.
      You speak good English; you are naturally quiet and self-restrained; if
      you can only conquer your timidity, I have not the least fear of you.
      There will be time enough in the new lodging for you to practice your
      character, and for me to practice mine. There will be time enough to make
      some more dresses&mdash;another gown for me, and your wedding-dress (which
      I mean to give you) for yourself. I shall have the newspaper sent every
      day. When the advertisement appears, I shall answer it&mdash;in any name I
      can take on the spur of the moment; in your name, if you like to lend it
      to me; and when the housekeeper asks me for my character, I shall refer
      her to you. She will see you in the position of mistress, and me in the
      position of maid&mdash;no suspicion can possibly enter her mind, unless
      you put it there. If you only have the courage to follow my instructions,
      and to say what I shall tell you to say, the interview will be over in ten
      minutes.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You frighten me, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; said Louisa, still trembling. &ldquo;You take my
      breath away with surprise. Courage! Where shall I find courage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where I keep it for you,&rdquo; said Magdalen&mdash;&ldquo;in the passage-money to
      Australia. Look at the new prospect which gives you a husband, and
      restores you to your child&mdash;and you will find your courage there.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa&rsquo;s sad face brightened; Louisa&rsquo;s faint heart beat quick. A spark of
      her mistress&rsquo;s spirit flew up into her eyes as she thought of the golden
      future.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you accept my proposal,&rdquo; pursued Magdalen, &ldquo;you can be asked in church
      at once, if you like. I promise you the money on the day when the
      advertisement appears in the newspaper. The risk of the housekeeper&rsquo;s
      rejecting me is my risk&mdash;not yours. My good looks are sadly gone off,
      I know. But I think I can still hold my place against the other servants&mdash;I
      think I can still <i>look</i> the parlor-maid whom Admiral Bartram wants.
      There is nothing for you to fear in this matter; I should not have
      mentioned it if there had been. The only danger is the danger of my being
      discovered at St. Crux, and that falls entirely on me. By the time I am in
      the admiral&rsquo;s house you will be married, and the ship will be taking you
      to your new life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Louisa&rsquo;s face, now brightening with hope, now clouding again with fear,
      showed plain signs of the struggle which it cost her to decide. She tried
      to gain time; she attempted confusedly to speak a few words of gratitude;
      but her mistress silenced her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You owe me no thanks,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I tell you again, we are only
      helping each other. I have very little money, but it is enough for your
      purpose, and I give it you freely. I have led a wretched life; I have made
      others wretched about me. I can&rsquo;t even make you happy, except by tempting
      you to a new deceit. There! there! it&rsquo;s not your fault. Worse women than
      you are will help me, if you refuse. Decide as you like, but don&rsquo;t be
      afraid of taking the money. If I succeed, I shall not want it. If I fail&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She stopped, rose abruptly from her chair, and hid her face from Louisa by
      walking away to the fire-place.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I fail,&rdquo; she resumed, warming her foot carelessly at the fender, &ldquo;all
      the money in the world will be of no use to me. Never mind why&mdash;never
      mind Me&mdash;think of yourself. I won&rsquo;t take advantage of the confession
      you have made to me; I won&rsquo;t influence you against your will. Do as you
      yourself think best. But remember one thing&mdash;my mind is made up;
      nothing you can say or do will change it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her sudden removal from the table, the altered tones of her voice as she
      spoke the last words, appeared to renew Louisa&rsquo;s hesitation. She clasped
      her hands together in her lap, and wrung them hard. &ldquo;This has come on me
      very suddenly, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; said the girl. &ldquo;I am sorely tempted to say Yes; and
      yet I am almost afraid&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take the night to consider it,&rdquo; interposed Magdalen, keeping her face
      persistently turned toward the fire; &ldquo;and tell me what you have decided to
      do, when you come into my room to-morrow morning. I shall want no help
      to-night&mdash;I can undress myself. You are not so strong as I am; you
      are tired, I dare say. Don&rsquo;t sit up on my account. Good-night, Louisa, and
      pleasant dreams!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her voice sank lower and lower as she spoke those kind words. She sighed
      heavily, and, leaning her arm on the mantel-piece, laid her head on it
      with a reckless weariness miserable to see. Louisa had not left the room,
      as she supposed&mdash;Louisa came softly to her side, and kissed her hand.
      Magdalen started; but she made no attempt, this time, to draw her hand
      away. The sense of her own horrible isolation subdued her, at the touch of
      the servant&rsquo;s lips. Her proud heart melted; her eyes filled with burning
      tears. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t distress me!&rdquo; she said, faintly. &ldquo;The time for kindness has
      gone by; it only overpowers me now. Good-night!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When the morning came, the affirmative answer which Magdalen had
      anticipated was the answer given.
    </p>
    <p>
      On that day the landlady received her week&rsquo;s notice to quit, and Louisa&rsquo;s
      needle flew fast through the stitches of the parlor-maid&rsquo;s dress.
    </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE SIXTH SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Miss Garth to Mr. Pendril.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, January 3d, 1848.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MR. PENDRIL&mdash;I write, as you kindly requested, to report how
      Norah is going on, and to tell you what changes I see for the better in
      the state of her mind on the subject of her sister.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I cannot say that she is becoming resigned to Magdalen&rsquo;s continued
      silence&mdash;I know her faithful nature too well to say it. I can only
      tell you that she is beginning to find relief from the heavy pressure of
      sorrow and suspense in new thoughts and new hopes. I doubt if she has yet
      realized this in her own mind; but I see the result, although she is not
      conscious of it herself. I see her heart opening to the consolation of
      another interest and another love. She has not said a word to me on the
      subject, nor have I said a word to her. But as certainly as I know that
      Mr. George Bartram&rsquo;s visits have lately grown more and more frequent to
      the family at Portland Place&mdash;so certainly I can assure you that
      Norah is finding a relief under her suspense, which is not of my bringing,
      and a hope in the future, which I have not taught her to feel.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is needless for me to say that I tell you this in the strictest
      confidence. God knows whether the happy prospect which seems to me to be
      just dawning will grow brighter or not as time goes on. The oftener I see
      Mr. George Bartram&mdash;and he has called on me more than once&mdash;the
      stronger my liking for him grows. To my poor judgment he seems to be a
      gentleman in the highest and truest sense of the word. If I could live to
      see Norah his wife, I should almost feel that I had lived long enough. But
      who can discern the future? We have suffered so much that I am afraid to
      hope.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you heard anything of Magdalen? I don&rsquo;t know why or how it is; but
      since I have known of her husband&rsquo;s death, my old tenderness for her seems
      to cling to me more obstinately than ever. Always yours truly,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH.&rdquo; II
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Pendril to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Serle Street, January 4th, 1848.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;Of Mrs. Noel Vanstone herself I have heard nothing.
      But I have learned, since I saw you, that the report of the position in
      which she is left by the death of her husband may be depended upon as the
      truth. No legacy of any kind is bequeathed to her. Her name is not once
      mentioned in her husband&rsquo;s will.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Knowing what we know, it is not to be concealed that this circumstance
      threatens us with more embarrassment, and perhaps with more distress. Mrs.
      Noel Vanstone is not the woman to submit, without a desperate resistance,
      to the total overthrow of all her schemes and all her hopes. The mere fact
      that nothing whatever has been heard of her since her husband&rsquo;s death is
      suggestive to my mind of serious mischief to come. In her situation, and
      with her temper, the quieter she is now, the more inveterately I, for one,
      distrust her in the future. It is impossible to say to what violent
      measures her present extremity may not drive her. It is impossible to feel
      sure that she may not be the cause of some public scandal this time, which
      may affect her innocent sister as well as herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know you will not misinterpret the motive which has led me to write
      these lines; I know you will not think that I am inconsiderate enough to
      cause you unnecessary alarm. My sincere anxiety to see that happy prospect
      realized to which your letter alludes has caused me to write far less
      reservedly than I might otherwise have written. I strongly urge you to use
      your influence, on every occasion when you can fairly exert it, to
      strengthen that growing attachment, and to place it beyond the reach of
      any coming disasters, while you have the opportunity of doing so. When I
      tell you that the fortune of which Mrs. Noel Vanstone has been deprived is
      entirely bequeathed to Admiral Bartram; and when I add that Mr. George
      Bartram is generally understood to be his uncle&rsquo;s heir&mdash;you will, I
      think, acknowledge that I am not warning you without a cause. Yours most
      truly,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;WILLIAM PENDRIL.&rdquo; III.
    </p>
    <p>
      From Admiral Bartram to Mrs. Drake (housekeeper at St. Crux).
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, January 10th, 1848.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MRS. DRAKE&mdash;I have received your letter from London, stating that
      you have found me a new parlor-maid at last, and that the girl is ready to
      return with you to St. Crux when your other errands in town allow you to
      come back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This arrangement must be altered immediately, for a reason which I am
      heartily sorry to have to write.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The illness of my niece, Mrs. Girdlestone&mdash;which appeared to be so
      slight as to alarm none of us, doctors included&mdash;has ended fatally. I
      received this morning the shocking news of her death. Her husband is said
      to be quite frantic with grief. Mr. George has already gone to his
      brother-in-law&rsquo;s, to superintend the last melancholy duties and I must
      follow him before the funeral takes place. We propose to take Mr.
      Girdlestone away afterward, and to try the effect on him of change of
      place and new scenes. Under these sad circumstances, I may be absent from
      St. Crux a month or six weeks at least; the house will be shut up, and the
      new servant will not be wanted until my return.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will therefore tell the girl, on receiving this letter, that a death
      in the family has caused a temporary change in our arrangements. If she is
      willing to wait, you may safely engage her to come here in six weeks&rsquo;
      time; I shall be back then, if Mr. George is not. If she refuses, pay her
      what compensation is right, and so have done with her. Yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ARTHUR BARTRAM.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Drake to Admiral Bartram.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;January 11th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HONORED SIR&mdash;I hope to get my errands done, and to return to St.
      Crux to-morrow, but write to save you anxiety, in case of delay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The young woman whom I have engaged (Louisa by name) is willing to wait
      your time; and her present mistress, taking an interest in her welfare,
      will provide for her during the interval. She understands that she is to
      enter on her new service in six weeks from the present date&mdash;namely,
      on the twenty-fifth of February next.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Begging you will accept my respectful sympathy under the sad bereavement
      which has befallen the family,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I remain, honored sir, your humble servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SOPHIA DRAKE.&rdquo; 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE SEVENTH SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      ST. CRUX-IN-THE-MARSH
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      &ldquo;THIS is where you are to sleep. Put yourself tidy, and then come down
      again to my room. The admiral has returned, and you will have to begin by
      waiting on him at dinner to-day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words, Mrs. Drake, the housekeeper, closed the door; and the
      new parlor-maid was left alone in her bed-chamber at St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      That day was the eventful twenty-fifth of February. In barely four months
      from the time when Mrs. Lecount had placed her master&rsquo;s private
      Instructions in his Executor&rsquo;s hands, the one combination of circumstances
      against which it had been her first and foremost object to provide was
      exactly the combination which had now taken place. Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      widow and Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s Secret Trust were together in the same house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Thus far, events had declared themselves without an exception in
      Magdalen&rsquo;s favor. Thus far, the path which had led her to St. Crux had
      been a path without an obstacle: Louisa, whose name she had now taken, had
      sailed three days since for Australia, with her husband and her child; she
      was the only living creature whom Magdalen had trusted with her secret,
      and she was by this time out of sight of the English land. The girl had
      been careful, reliable and faithfully devoted to her mistress&rsquo;s interests
      to the last. She had passed the ordeal of her interview with the
      housekeeper, and had forgotten none of the instructions by which she had
      been prepared to meet it. She had herself proposed to turn the six weeks&rsquo;
      delay, caused by the death in the admiral&rsquo;s family, to good account, by
      continuing the all-important practice of those domestic lessons, on the
      perfect acquirement of which her mistress&rsquo;s daring stratagem depended for
      its success. Thanks to the time thus gained, when Louisa&rsquo;s marriage was
      over, and the day of parting had come, Magdalen had learned and mastered,
      in the nicest detail, everything that her former servant could teach her.
      On the day when she passed the doors of St. Crux she entered on her
      desperate venture, strong in the ready presence of mind under emergencies
      which her later life had taught her, stronger still in the trained
      capacity that she possessed for the assumption of a character not her own,
      strongest of all in her two months&rsquo; daily familiarity with the practical
      duties of the position which she had undertaken to fill.
    </p>
    <p>
      As soon as Mrs. Drake&rsquo;s departure had left her alone, she unpacked her
      box, and dressed herself for the evening.
    </p>
    <p>
      She put on a lavender-colored stuff-gown&mdash;half-mourning for Mrs.
      Girdlestone; ordered for all the servants, under the admiral&rsquo;s
      instructions&mdash;a white muslin apron, and a neat white cap and collar,
      with ribbons to match the gown. In this servant&rsquo;s costume&mdash;in the
      plain gown fastening high round her neck, in the neat little white cap at
      the back of her head&mdash;in this simple dress, to the eyes of all men,
      not linen-drapers, at once the most modest and the most alluring that a
      woman can wear, the sad changes which mental suffering had wrought in her
      beauty almost disappeared from view. In the evening costume of a lady,
      with her bosom uncovered, with her figure armed, rather than dressed, in
      unpliable silk, the admiral might have passed her by without notice in his
      own drawing-room. In the evening costume of a servant, no admirer of
      beauty could have looked at her once and not have turned again to look at
      her for the second time.
    </p>
    <p>
      Descending the stairs, on her way to the house-keeper&rsquo;s room, she passed
      by the entrances to two long stone corridors, with rows of doors opening
      on them; one corridor situated on the second, and one on the first floor
      of the house. &ldquo;Many rooms!&rdquo; she thought, as she looked at the doors.
      &ldquo;Weary work searching here for what I have come to find!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      On reaching the ground-floor she was met by a weather-beaten old man, who
      stopped and stared at her with an appearance of great interest. He was the
      same old man whom Captain Wragge had seen in the backyard at St. Crux, at
      work on the model of a ship. All round the neighborhood he was known, far
      and wide, as &ldquo;the admiral&rsquo;s coxswain.&rdquo; His name was Mazey. Sixty years had
      written their story of hard work at sea, and hard drinking on shore, on
      the veteran&rsquo;s grim and wrinkled face. Sixty years had proved his fidelity,
      and had brought his battered old carcass, at the end of the voyage, into
      port in his master&rsquo;s house.
    </p>
    <p>
      Seeing no one else of whom she could inquire, Magdalen requested the old
      man to show her the way that led to the housekeeper&rsquo;s room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll show you, my dear,&rdquo; said old Mazey, speaking in the high and hollow
      voice peculiar to the deaf. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re the new maid&mdash;eh? And a
      fine-grown girl, too! His honor, the admiral, likes a parlor-maid with a
      clean run fore and aft. You&rsquo;ll do, my dear&mdash;you&rsquo;ll do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You must not mind what Mr. Mazey says to you,&rdquo; remarked the housekeeper,
      opening her door as the old sailor expressed his approval of Magdalen in
      these terms. &ldquo;He is privileged to talk as he pleases; and he is very
      tiresome and slovenly in his habits; but he means no harm.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With that apology for the veteran, Mrs. Drake led Magdalen first to the
      pantry, and next to the linen-room, installing her, with all due
      formality, in her own domestic dominions. This ceremony completed, the new
      parlor-maid was taken upstairs, and was shown the dining-room, which
      opened out of the corridor on the first floor. Here she was directed to
      lay the cloth, and to prepare the table for one person only&mdash;Mr.
      George Bartram not having returned with his uncle to St. Crux. Mrs.
      Drake&rsquo;s sharp eyes watched Magdalen attentively as she performed this
      introductory duty; and Mrs. Drake&rsquo;s private convictions, when the table
      was spread, forced her to acknowledge, so far, that the new servant
      thoroughly understood her work.
    </p>
    <p>
      An hour later the soup-tureen was placed on the table; and Magdalen stood
      alone behind the admiral&rsquo;s empty chair, waiting her master&rsquo;s first
      inspection of her when he entered the dining-room.
    </p>
    <p>
      A large bell rang in the lower regions&mdash;quick, shambling footsteps
      pattered on the stone corridor outside&mdash;the door opened suddenly&mdash;and
      a tall lean yellow old man, sharp as to his eyes, shrewd as to his lips,
      fussily restless as to all his movements, entered the room, with two huge
      Labrador dogs at his heels, and took his seat in a violent hurry. The dogs
      followed him, and placed themselves, with the utmost gravity and
      composure, one on each side of his chair. This was Admiral Bartram, and
      these were the companions of his solitary meal.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay! ay! ay! here&rsquo;s the new parlor-maid, to be sure!&rdquo; he began, looking
      sharply, but not at all unkindly, at Magdalen. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s your name, my good
      girl? Louisa, is it? I shall call you Lucy, if you don&rsquo;t mind. Take off
      the cover, my dear&mdash;I&rsquo;m a minute or two late to-day. Don&rsquo;t be
      unpunctual to-morrow on that account; I am as regular as clock-work
      generally. How are you after your journey? Did my spring-cart bump you
      about much in bringing you from the station? Capital soup this&mdash;hot
      as fire&mdash;reminds me of the soup we used to have in the West Indies in
      the year Three. Have you got your half-mourning on? Stand there, and let
      me see. Ah, yes, very neat, and nice, and tidy. Poor Mrs. Girdlestone! Oh
      dear, dear, dear, poor Mrs. Girdlestone! You&rsquo;re not afraid of dogs, are
      you, Lucy? Eh? What? You like dogs? That&rsquo;s right! Always be kind to dumb
      animals. These two dogs dine with me every day, except when there&rsquo;s
      company. The dog with the black nose is Brutus, and the dog with the white
      nose is Cassius. Did you ever hear who Brutus and Cassius were? Ancient
      Romans? That&rsquo;s right&mdash;-good girl. Mind your book and your needle, and
      we&rsquo;ll get you a good husband one of these days. Take away the soup, my
      dear, take away the soup!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      This was the man whose secret it was now the one interest of Magdalen&rsquo;s
      life to surprise! This was the man whose name had supplanted hers in Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s will!
    </p>
    <p>
      The fish and the roast meat followed; and the admiral&rsquo;s talk rambled on&mdash;now
      in soliloquy, now addressed to the parlor-maid, and now directed to the
      dogs&mdash;as familiarly and as discontentedly as ever. Magdalen observed
      with some surprise that the companions of the admiral&rsquo;s dinner had, thus
      far, received no scraps from their master&rsquo;s plate. The two magnificent
      brutes sat squatted on their haunches, with their great heads over the
      table, watching the progress of the meal, with the profoundest attention,
      but apparently expecting no share in it. The roast meat was removed, the
      admiral&rsquo;s plate was changed, and Magdalen took the silver covers off the
      two made-dishes on either side of the table. As she handed the first of
      the savory dishes to her master, the dogs suddenly exhibited a breathless
      personal interest in the proceedings. Brutus gluttonously watered at the
      mouth; and the tongue of Cassius, protruding in unutterable expectation,
      smoked again between his enormous jaws.
    </p>
    <p>
      The admiral helped himself liberally from the dish; sent Magdalen to the
      side-table to get him some bread; and, when he thought her eye was off
      him, furtively tumbled the whole contents of his plate into Brutus&rsquo;s
      mouth. Cassius whined faintly as his fortunate comrade swallowed the
      savory mess at a gulp. &ldquo;Hush! you fool,&rdquo; whispered the admiral. &ldquo;Your turn
      next!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen presented the second dish. Once more the old gentleman helped
      himself largely&mdash;once more he sent her away to the side-table&mdash;once
      more he tumbled the entire contents of the plate down the dog&rsquo;s throat,
      selecting Cassius this time, as became a considerate master and an
      impartial man. When the next course followed&mdash;consisting of a plain
      pudding and an unwholesome &ldquo;cream&rdquo;&mdash;Magdalen&rsquo;s suspicion of the
      function of the dogs at the dinner-table was confirmed. While the master
      took the simple pudding, the dogs swallowed the elaborate cream. The
      admiral was plainly afraid of offending his cook on the one hand, and of
      offending his digestion on the other&mdash;and Brutus and Cassius were the
      two trained accomplices who regularly helped him every day off the horns
      of his dilemma. &ldquo;Very good! very good!&rdquo; said the old gentleman, with the
      most transparent duplicity. &ldquo;Tell the cook, my dear, a capital cream!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Having placed the wine and dessert on the table, Magdalen was about to
      withdraw. Before she could leave the room, her master called her back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Stop, stop!&rdquo; said the admiral; &ldquo;you don&rsquo;t know the ways of the house yet,
      Lucy. Put another wine-glass here, at my right hand&mdash;the largest you
      can find, my dear. I&rsquo;ve got a third dog, who comes in at dessert&mdash;a
      drunken old sea-dog who has followed my fortunes, afloat and ashore, for
      fifty years and more. Yes, yes, that&rsquo;s the sort of glass we want. You&rsquo;re a
      good girl&mdash;you&rsquo;re a neat, handy girl. Steady, my dear! there&rsquo;s
      nothing to be frightened at!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      A sudden thump on the outside of the door, followed by one mighty bark
      from each of the dogs, had made Magdalen start. &ldquo;Come in!&rdquo; shouted the
      admiral. The door opened; the tails of Brutus and Cassius cheerfully
      thumped the floor; and old Mazey marched straight up to the right-hand
      side of his master&rsquo;s chair. The veteran stood there, with his legs wide
      apart and his balance carefully adjusted, as if the dining-room had been a
      cabin, and the house a ship pitching in a sea-way.
    </p>
    <p>
      The admiral filled the large glass with port, filled his own glass with
      claret, and raised it to his lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God bless the Queen, Mazey,&rdquo; said the admiral.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God bless the Queen, your honor,&rdquo; said old Mazey, swallowing his port, as
      the dogs swallowed the made-dishes, at a gulp.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How&rsquo;s the wind, Mazey?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;West and by Noathe, your honor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Any report to-night, Mazey!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No report, your honor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-evening, Mazey.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-evening, your honor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The after-dinner ceremony thus completed, old Mazey made his bow, and
      walked out of the room again. Brutus and Cassius stretched themselves on
      the rug to digest mushrooms and made gravies in the lubricating heat of
      the fire. &ldquo;For what we have received, the Lord make us truly thankful,&rdquo;
       said the admiral. &ldquo;Go downstairs, my good girl, and get your supper. A
      light meal, Lucy, if you take my advice&mdash;a light meal, or you will
      have the nightmare. Early to bed, my dear, and early to rise, makes a
      parlor-maid healthy and wealthy and wise. That&rsquo;s the wisdom of your
      ancestors&mdash;you mustn&rsquo;t laugh at it. Good-night.&rdquo; In those words
      Magdalen was dismissed; and so her first day&rsquo;s experience of Admiral
      Bartram came to an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      After breakfast the next morning, the admiral&rsquo;s directions to the new
      parlor-maid included among them one particular order which, in Magdalen&rsquo;s
      situation, it was especially her interest to receive. In the old
      gentleman&rsquo;s absence from home that day, on local business which took him
      to Ossory, she was directed to make herself acquainted with the whole
      inhabited quarter of the house, and to learn the positions of the various
      rooms, so as to know where the bells called her when the bells rang. Mrs.
      Drake was charged with the duty of superintending the voyage of domestic
      discovery, unless she happened to be otherwise engaged&mdash;in which case
      any one of the inferior servants would be equally competent to act as
      Magdalen&rsquo;s guide.
    </p>
    <p>
      At noon the admiral left for Ossory, and Magdalen presented herself in
      Mrs. Drake&rsquo;s room, to be shown over the house. Mrs. Drake happened to be
      otherwise engaged, and referred her to the head house-maid. The head
      house-maid happened on that particular morning to be in the same condition
      as Mrs. Drake, and referred her to the under-house-maids. The
      under-house-maids declared they were all behindhand and had not a minute
      to spare&mdash;they suggested, not too civilly, that old Mazey had nothing
      on earth to do, and that he knew the house as well, or better, than he
      knew his A B C. Magdalen took the hint, with a secret indignation and
      contempt which it cost her a hard struggle to conceal. She had suspected,
      on the previous night, and she was certain now, that the women-servants
      all incomprehensibly resented her presence among them with the same sullen
      unanimity of distrust. Mrs. Drake, as she had seen for herself, was really
      engaged that morning over her accounts. But of all the servants under her
      who had made their excuses not one had even affected to be more occupied
      than usual. Their looks said plainly, &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t like you; and we won&rsquo;t
      show you over the house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She found her way to old Mazey, not by the scanty directions given her,
      but by the sound of the veteran&rsquo;s cracked and quavering voice, singing in
      some distant seclusion a verse of the immortal sea-song&mdash;&ldquo;Tom
      Bowling.&rdquo; Just as she stopped among the rambling stone passages on the
      basement story of the house, uncertain which way to turn next, she heard
      the tuneless old voice in the distance, singing these lines:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     &ldquo;His form was of the manliest beau-u-u-uty,
     His heart was ki-i-ind and soft;
     Faithful below Tom did his duty,
     But now he&rsquo;s gone alo-o-o-o-oft
     &mdash;But now he&rsquo;s go-o-o-one aloft!&rdquo;
 </pre>
    <p>
      Magdalen followed in the direction of the quavering voice, and found
      herself in a little room looking out on the back yard. There sat old
      Mazey, with his spectacles low on his nose, and his knotty old hands
      blundering over the rigging of his model ship. There were Brutus and
      Cassius digesting before the fire again, and snoring as if they thoroughly
      enjoyed it. There was Lord Nelson on one wall, in flaming watercolors; and
      there, on the other, was a portrait of Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s last flagship, in
      full sail on a sea of slate, with a salmon-colored sky to complete the
      illusion.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What, they won&rsquo;t show you over the house&mdash;won&rsquo;t they?&rdquo; said old
      Mazey. &ldquo;I will, then! That head house-maid&rsquo;s a sour one, my dear&mdash;if
      ever there was a sour one yet. You&rsquo;re too young and good-looking to please
      &lsquo;em&mdash;that&rsquo;s what you are.&rdquo; He rose, took off his spectacles, and
      feebly mended the fire. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s as straight as a poplar,&rdquo; said old Mazey,
      considering Magdalen&rsquo;s figure in drowsy soliloquy. &ldquo;I say she&rsquo;s as
      straight as a poplar, and his honor the admiral says so too! Come along,
      my dear,&rdquo; he proceeded, addressing himself to Magdalen again. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll teach
      you your Pints of the Compass first. When you know your Pints, blow high,
      blow low, you&rsquo;ll find it plain sailing all over the house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He led the way to the door&mdash;stopped, and suddenly bethinking himself
      of his miniature ship, went back to put his model away in an empty
      cupboard&mdash;led the way to the door again&mdash;stopped once more&mdash;remembered
      that some of the rooms were chilly&mdash;and pottered about, swearing and
      grumbling, and looking for his hat. Magdalen sat down patiently to wait
      for him. She gratefully contrasted his treatment of her with the treatment
      she had received from the women. Resist it as firmly, despise it as
      proudly as we may, all studied unkindness&mdash;no matter how contemptible
      it may be&mdash;has a stinging power in it which reaches to the quick.
      Magdalen only knew how she had felt the small malice of the female
      servants, by the effect which the rough kindness of the old sailor
      produced on her afterward. The dumb welcome of the dogs, when the
      movements in the room had roused them from their sleep, touched her more
      acutely still. Brutus pushed his mighty muzzle companionably into her
      hand; and Cassius laid his friendly fore-paw on her lap. Her heart yearned
      over the two creatures as she patted and caressed them. It seemed only
      yesterday since she and the dogs at Combe-Raven had roamed the garden
      together, and had idled away the summer mornings luxuriously on the shady
      lawn.
    </p>
    <p>
      Old Mazey found his hat at last, and they started on their exploring
      expedition, with the dogs after them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Leaving the basement story of the house, which was entirely devoted to the
      servants&rsquo; offices, they ascended to the first floor, and entered the long
      corridor, with which Magdalen&rsquo;s last night&rsquo;s experience had already made
      her acquainted. &ldquo;Put your back ag&rsquo;in this wall,&rdquo; said old Mazey, pointing
      to the long wall&mdash;pierced at irregular intervals with windows looking
      out over a courtyard and fish-pond&mdash;which formed the right-hand side
      of the corridor, as Magdalen now stood. &ldquo;Put your back here,&rdquo; said the
      veteran, &ldquo;and look straight afore you. What do you see?&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;The
      opposite wall of the passage,&rdquo; said Magdalen.&mdash;&ldquo;Ay! ay! what else?&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;The
      doors leading into the rooms.&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;What else?&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;I see nothing
      else.&rdquo; Old Mazey chuckled, winked, and shook his knotty forefinger at
      Magdalen, impressively. &ldquo;You see one of the Pints of the Compass, my dear.
      When you&rsquo;ve got your back ag&rsquo;in this wall, and when you look straight
      afore you, you look Noathe. If you ever get lost hereaway, put your back
      ag&rsquo;in the wall, look out straight afore you, and say to yourself: &lsquo;I look
      Noathe!&rsquo; You do that like a good girl, and you won&rsquo;t lose your bearings.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      After administering this preliminary dose of instruction, old Mazey opened
      the first of the doors on the left-hand side of the passage. It led into
      the dining-room, with which Magdalen was already familiar. The second room
      was fitted up as a library; and the third, as a morning-room. The fourth
      and fifth doors&mdash;both belonging to dismantled and uninhabited rooms,
      and both locked-brought them to the end of the north wing of the house,
      and to the opening of a second and shorter passage, placed at a right
      angle to the first. Here old Mazey, who had divided his time pretty
      equally during the investigation of the rooms, in talking of &ldquo;his honor
      the Admiral,&rdquo; and whistling to the dogs, returned with all possible
      expedition to the points of the compass, and gravely directed Magdalen to
      repeat the ceremony of putting her back against the wall. She attempted to
      shorten the proceedings, by declaring (quite correctly) that in her
      present position she knew she was looking east. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you talk about the
      east, my dear,&rdquo; said old Mazey, proceeding unmoved with his own system of
      instruction, &ldquo;till you know the east first. Put your back ag&rsquo;in this wall,
      and look straight afore you. What do you see?&rdquo; The remainder of the
      catechism proceeded as before. When the end was reached, Magdalen&rsquo;s
      instructor was satisfied. He chuckled and winked at her once more. &ldquo;Now
      you may talk about the east, my dear,&rdquo; said the veteran, &ldquo;for now you know
      it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The east passage, after leading them on for a few yards only, terminated
      in a vestibule, with a high door in it which faced them as they advanced.
      The door admitted them to a large and lofty drawing-room, decorated, like
      all the other apartments, with valuable old-fashioned furniture. Leading
      the way across this room, Magdalen&rsquo;s conductor pushed back a heavy
      sliding-door, opposite the door of entrance. &ldquo;Put your apron over your
      head,&rdquo; said old Mazey. &ldquo;We are coming to the Banqueting-Hall now. The
      floor&rsquo;s mortal cold, and the damp sticks to the place like cockroaches to
      a collier. His honor the admiral calls it the Arctic Passage. I&rsquo;ve got my
      name for it, too&mdash;I call it, Freeze-your-Bones.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen passed through the doorway, and found herself in the ancient
      Banqueting-Hall of St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      On her left hand she saw a row of lofty windows, set deep in embrasures,
      and extending over a frontage of more than a hundred feet in length. On
      her right hand, ranged in one long row from end to end of the opposite
      wall, hung a dismal collection of black, begrimed old pictures, rotting
      from their frames, and representing battle-scenes by sea and land. Below
      the pictures, midway down the length of the wall, yawned a huge cavern of
      a fireplace, surmounted by a towering mantel-piece of black marble. The
      one object of furniture (if furniture it might be called) visible far or
      near in the vast emptiness of the place, was a gaunt ancient tripod of
      curiously chased metal, standing lonely in the middle of the hall, and
      supporting a wide circular pan, filled deep with ashes from an extinct
      charcoal fire. The high ceiling, once finely carved and gilt, was foul
      with dirt and cobwebs; the naked walls at either end of the room were
      stained with damp; and the cold of the marble floor struck through the
      narrow strip of matting laid down, parallel with the windows, as a
      foot-path for passengers across the wilderness of the room. No better name
      for it could have been devised than the name which old Mazey had found.
      &ldquo;Freeze-your-Bones&rdquo; accurately described, in three words, the
      Banqueting-Hall at St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you never light a fire in this dismal place?&rdquo; asked Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It all depends on which side of Freeze-your-Bones his honor the admiral
      lives,&rdquo; said old Mazey. &ldquo;His honor likes to shift his quarters, sometimes
      to one side of the house, sometimes to the other. If he lives Noathe of
      Freeze-your-Bones&mdash;which is where you&rsquo;ve just come from&mdash;we
      don&rsquo;t waste our coals here. If he lives South of Freeze-your-Bones&mdash;which
      is where we are going to next&mdash;we light the fire in the grate and the
      charcoal in the pan. Every night, when we do that, the damp gets the
      better of us: every morning, we turn to again, and get the better of the
      damp.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With this remarkable explanation, old Mazey led the way to the lower end
      of the Hall, opened more doors, and showed Magdalen through another suite
      of rooms, four in number, all of moderate size, and all furnished in much
      the same manner as the rooms in the northern wing. She looked out of the
      windows, and saw the neglected gardens of St. Crux, overgrown with
      brambles and weeds. Here and there, at no great distance in the grounds,
      the smoothly curving line of one of the tidal streams peculiar to the
      locality wound its way, gleaming in the sunlight, through gaps in the
      brambles and trees. The more distant view ranged over the flat eastward
      country beyond, speckled with its scattered little villages; crossed and
      recrossed by its network of &ldquo;back-waters&rdquo;; and terminated abruptly by the
      long straight line of sea-wall which protects the defenseless coast of
      Essex from invasion by the sea.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have we more rooms still to see?&rdquo; asked Magdalen, turning from the view
      of the garden, and looking about her for another door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No more, my dear&mdash;we&rsquo;ve run aground here, and we may as well wear
      round and put back again,&rdquo; said old Mazey. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s another side of the
      house&mdash;due south of you as you stand now&mdash;which is all tumbling
      about our ears. You must go out into the garden if you want to see it;
      it&rsquo;s built off from us by a brick bulkhead, t&rsquo;other side of this wall
      here. The monks lived due south of us, my dear, hundreds of years afore
      his honor the admiral was born or thought of, and a fine time of it they
      had, as I&rsquo;ve heard. They sang in the church all the morning, and drank
      grog in the orchard all the afternoon. They slept off their grog on the
      best of feather-beds, and they fattened on the neighborhood all the year
      round. Lucky beggars! lucky beggars!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Apostrophizing the monks in these terms, and evidently regretting that he
      had not lived himself in those good old times, the veteran led the way
      back through the rooms. On the return passage across &ldquo;Freeze-your-Bones,&rdquo;
       Magdalen preceded him. &ldquo;She&rsquo;s as straight as a poplar,&rdquo; mumbled old Mazey
      to himself, hobbling along after his youthful companion, and wagging his
      venerable head in cordial approval. &ldquo;I never was particular what nation
      they belonged to; but I always <i>did</i> like &lsquo;em straight and fine
      grown, and I always <i>shall</i> like &lsquo;em straight and fine grown, to my
      dying day.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are there more rooms to see upstairs, on the second floor?&rdquo; asked
      Magdalen, when they had returned to the point from which they had started.
    </p>
    <p>
      The naturally clear, distinct tones of her voice had hitherto reached the
      old sailor&rsquo;s imperfect sense of hearing easily enough. Rather to her
      surprise, he became stone deaf on a sudden, to her last question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you sure of your Pints of the Compass?&rdquo; he inquired. &ldquo;If you&rsquo;re not
      sure, put your back ag&rsquo;in the wall, and we&rsquo;ll go all over &lsquo;em again, my
      dear, beginning with the Noathe.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen assured him that she felt quite familiar, by this time, with all
      the points, the &ldquo;Noathe&rdquo; included; and then repeated her question in
      louder tones. The veteran obstinately matched her by becoming deafer than
      ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, my dear,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;you&rsquo;re right; it <i>is</i> chilly in these
      passages; and unless I go back to my fire, my fire&rsquo;ll go out&mdash;won&rsquo;t
      it? If you don&rsquo;t feel sure of your Pints of the Compass, come in to me and
      I&rsquo;ll put you right again.&rdquo; He winked benevolently, whistled to the dogs,
      and hobbled off. Magdalen heard him chuckle over his own success in
      balking her curiosity on the subject of the second floor. &ldquo;I know how to
      deal with &lsquo;em!&rdquo; said old Mazey to himself, in high triumph. &ldquo;Tall and
      short, native and foreign, sweethearts and wives&mdash;<i>I</i> know how
      to deal with &lsquo;em!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Left by herself, Magdalen exemplified the excellence of the old sailor&rsquo;s
      method of treatment, in her particular case, by ascending the stairs
      immediately, to make her own observations on the second floor. The stone
      passage here was exactly similar, except that more doors opened out of it,
      to the passage on the first floor. She opened the two nearest doors, one
      after another, at a venture, and discovered that both rooms were
      bed-chambers. The fear of being discovered by one of the woman-servants in
      a part of the house with which she had no concern, warned her not to push
      her investigations on the bedroom floor too far at starting. She hurriedly
      walked down the passage to see where it ended, discovered that it came to
      its termination in a lumber-room, answering to the position of the
      vestibule downstairs, and retraced her steps immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      On her way back she noticed an object which had previously escaped her
      attention. It was a low truckle-bed, placed parallel with the wall, and
      close to one of the doors on the bedroom side. In spite of its strange and
      comfortless situation, the bed was apparently occupied at night by a
      sleeper; the sheets were on it, and the end of a thick red fisherman&rsquo;s cap
      peeped out from under the pillow. She ventured on opening the door near
      which the bed was placed, and found herself, as she conjectured from
      certain signs and tokens, in the admiral&rsquo;s sleeping chamber. A moment&rsquo;s
      observation of the room was all she dared risk, and, softly closing the
      door again, she returned to the kitchen regions.
    </p>
    <p>
      The truckle-bed, and the strange position in which it was placed, dwelt on
      her mind all through the afternoon. Who could possibly sleep in it? The
      remembrance of the red fisherman&rsquo;s cap, and the knowledge she had already
      gained of Mazey&rsquo;s dog-like fidelity to his master, helped her to guess
      that the old sailor might be the occupant of the truckle-bed. But why,
      with bedrooms enough and to spare, should he occupy that cold and
      comfortless situation at night? Why should he sleep on guard outside his
      master&rsquo;s door? Was there some nocturnal danger in the house of which the
      admiral was afraid? The question seemed absurd, and yet the position of
      the bed forced it irresistibly on her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      Stimulated by her own ungovernable curiosity on this subject, Magdalen
      ventured to question the housekeeper. She acknowledged having walked from
      end to end of the passage on the second floor, to see if it was as long as
      the passage on the first; and she mentioned having noticed with
      astonishment the position of the truckle-bed. Mrs. Drake answered her
      implied inquiry shortly and sharply. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t blame a young girl like
      you,&rdquo; said the old lady, &ldquo;for being a little curious when she first comes
      into such a strange house as this. But remember, for the future, that
      your business does not lie on the bedroom story. Mr. Mazey sleeps on that
      bed you noticed. It is his habit at night to sleep outside his master&rsquo;s
      door.&rdquo; With that meager explanation Mrs. Drake&rsquo;s lips closed, and opened
      no more.
    </p>
    <p>
      Later in the day Magdalen found an opportunity of applying to old Mazey
      himself. She discovered the veteran in high good humor, smoking his pipe,
      and warming a tin mug of ale at his own snug fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Mazey,&rdquo; she asked, boldly, &ldquo;why do you put your bed in that cold
      passage?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What! you have been upstairs, you young jade, have you?&rdquo; said old Mazey,
      looking up from his mug with a leer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen smiled and nodded. &ldquo;Come! come! tell me,&rdquo; she said, coaxingly.
      &ldquo;Why do you sleep outside the admiral&rsquo;s door?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you part your hair in the middle, my dear?&rdquo; asked old Mazey, with
      another leer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose, because I am accustomed to do it,&rdquo; answered Magdalen.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ay! ay!&rdquo; said the veteran. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s why, is it? Well, my dear, the reason
      why you part your hair in the middle is the reason why I sleep outside the
      admiral&rsquo;s door. I know how to deal with &lsquo;em!&rdquo; chuckled old Mazey, lapsing
      into soliloquy, and stirring up his ale in high triumph. &ldquo;Tall and short,
      native and foreign, sweethearts and wives&mdash;<i>I</i> know how to deal
      with &lsquo;em!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen&rsquo;s third and last attempt at solving the mystery of the
      truckle-bed was made while she was waiting on the admiral at dinner. The
      old gentleman&rsquo;s questions gave her an opportunity of referring to the
      subject, without any appearance of presumption or disrespect; but he
      proved to be quite as impenetrable, in his way, as old Mazey and Mrs.
      Drake had been in theirs. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t concern you, my dear,&rdquo; said the
      admiral, bluntly. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be curious. Look in your Old Testament when you
      go downstairs, and see what happened in the Garden of Eden through
      curiosity. Be a good girl, and don&rsquo;t imitate your mother Eve.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Late at night, as Magdalen passed the end of the second-floor passage,
      proceeding alone on her way up to her own room, she stopped and listened.
      A screen was placed at the entrance of the corridor, so as to hide it from
      the view of persons passing on the stairs. The snoring she heard on the
      other side of the screen encouraged her to slip round it, and to advance a
      few steps. Shading the light of her candle with her hand, she ventured
      close to the admiral&rsquo;s door, and saw, to her surprise, that the bed had
      been moved since she had seen it in the day-time, so as to stand exactly
      across the door, and to bar the way entirely to any one who might attempt
      to enter the admiral&rsquo;s room. After this discovery, old Mazey himself,
      snoring lustily, with the red fisherman&rsquo;s cap pulled down to his eyebrows,
      and the blankets drawn up to his nose, became an object of secondary
      importance only, by comparison with his bed. That the veteran did actually
      sleep on guard before his master&rsquo;s door, and that he and the admiral and
      the housekeeper were in the secret of this unaccountable proceeding, was
      now beyond all doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;A strange end,&rdquo; thought Magdalen, pondering over her discovery as she
      stole upstairs to her own sleeping-room&mdash;&ldquo;a strange end to a strange
      day!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE first week passed, the second week passed, and Magdalen was, to all
      appearance, no nearer to the discovery of the Secret Trust than on the day
      when she first entered on her service at St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      But the fortnight, uneventful as it was, had not been a fortnight lost.
      Experience had already satisfied her on one important point&mdash;experience
      had shown that she could set the rooted distrust of the other servants
      safely at defiance. Time had accustomed the women to her presence in the
      house, without shaking the vague conviction which possessed them all
      alike, that the newcomer was not one of themselves. All that Magdalen
      could do in her own defense was to keep the instinctive female suspicion
      of her confined within those purely negative limits which it had occupied
      from the first, and this she accomplished.
    </p>
    <p>
      Day after day the women watched her with the untiring vigilance of malice
      and distrust, and day after day not the vestige of a discovery rewarded
      them for their pains. Silently, intelligently, and industriously&mdash;with
      an ever-present remembrance of herself and her place&mdash;the new
      parlor-maid did her work. Her only intervals of rest and relaxation were
      the intervals passed occasionally in the day with old Mazey and the dogs,
      and the precious interval of the night during which she was secure from
      observation in the solitude of her room. Thanks to the superfluity of
      bed-chambers at St. Crux, each one of the servants had the choice, if she
      pleased, of sleeping in a room of her own. Alone in the night, Magdalen
      might dare to be herself again&mdash;might dream of the past, and wake
      from the dream, encountering no curious eyes to notice that she was in
      tears&mdash;might ponder over the future, and be roused by no whisperings
      in corners, which tainted her with the suspicion of &ldquo;having something on
      her mind.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Satisfied, thus far, of the perfect security of her position in the house,
      she profited next by a second chance in her favor, which&mdash;before the
      fortnight was at an end&mdash;relieved her mind of all doubt on the
      formidable subject of Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      Partly from the accidental gossip of the women at the table in the
      servants&rsquo; hall; partly from a marked paragraph in a Swiss newspaper, which
      she had found one morning lying open on the admiral&rsquo;s easy-chair&mdash;she
      gained the welcome assurance that no danger was to be dreaded, this time,
      from the housekeeper&rsquo;s presence on the scene. Mrs. Lecount had, as it
      appeared, passed a week or more at St. Crux after the date of her master&rsquo;s
      death, and had then left England, to live on the interest of her legacy,
      in honorable and prosperous retirement, in her native place. The paragraph
      in the Swiss newspaper described the fulfillment of this laudable project.
      Mrs. Lecount had not only established herself at Zurich, but (wisely
      mindful of the uncertainty of life) had also settled the charitable uses
      to which her fortune was to be applied after her death. One half of it was
      to go to the founding of a &ldquo;Lecompte Scholarship&rdquo; for poor students in the
      University of Geneva. The other half was to be employed by the municipal
      authorities of Zurich in the maintenance and education of a certain number
      of orphan girls, natives of the city, who were to be trained for domestic
      service in later life. The Swiss journalist adverted to these
      philanthropic bequests in terms of extravagant eulogy. Zurich was
      congratulated on the possession of a Paragon of public virtue; and William
      Tell, in the character of benefactor to Switzerland, was compared
      disadvantageously with Mrs. Lecount.
    </p>
    <p>
      The third week began, and Magdalen was now at liberty to take her first
      step forward on the way to the discovery of the Secret Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      She ascertained from old Mazey that it was his master&rsquo;s custom, during the
      winter and spring months, to occupy the rooms in the north wing; and
      during the summer and autumn to cross the Arctic passage of
      &ldquo;Freeze-your-Bones,&rdquo; and live in the eastward apartments which looked out
      on the garden. While the Banqueting-Hall remained&mdash;owing to the
      admiral&rsquo;s inadequate pecuniary resources&mdash;in its damp and dismantled
      state, and while the interior of St. Crux was thus comfortlessly divided
      into two separate residences, no more convenient arrangement than this
      could well have been devised. Now and then (as Magdalen understood from
      her informant) there were days, both in winter and summer, when the
      admiral became anxious about the condition of the rooms which he was not
      occupying at the time, and when he insisted on investigating the state of
      the furniture, the pictures, and the books with his own eyes. On these
      occasions, in summer as in winter, a blazing fire was kindled for some
      days previously in the large grate, and the charcoal was lighted in the
      tripod-pan, to keep the Banqueting-Hall as warm as circumstances would
      admit. As soon as the old gentleman&rsquo;s anxieties were set at rest the rooms
      were shut up again, and &ldquo;Freeze-your-Bones&rdquo; was once more abandoned for
      weeks and weeks together to damp, desolation, and decay. The last of these
      temporary migrations had taken place only a few days since; the admiral
      had satisfied himself that the rooms in the east wing were none the worse
      for the absence of their master, and he might now be safely reckoned on as
      settled in the north wing for weeks, and perhaps, if the season was cold,
      for months to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      Trifling as they might be in themselves, these particulars were of serious
      importance to Magdalen, for they helped her to fix the limits of the field
      of search. Assuming that the admiral was likely to keep all his important
      documents within easy reach of his own hand, she might now feel certain
      that the Secret Trust was secured in one or other of the rooms in the
      north wing.
    </p>
    <p>
      In which room? That question was not easy to answer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Of the four inhabitable rooms which were all at the admiral&rsquo;s disposal
      during the day&mdash;that is to say, of the dining-room, the library, the
      morning-room, and the drawing-room opening out of the vestibule&mdash;the
      library appeared to be the apartment in which, if he had a preference, he
      passed the greater part of his time. There was a table in this room, with
      drawers that locked; there was a magnificent Italian cabinet, with doors
      that locked; there were five cupboards under the book-cases, every one of
      which locked. There were receptacles similarly secured in the other rooms;
      and in all or any of these papers might be kept.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had answered the bell, and had seen him locking and unlocking, now in
      one room, now in another, but oftenest in the library. She had noticed
      occasionally that his expression was fretful and impatient when he looked
      round at her from an open cabinet or cupboard and gave his orders; and she
      inferred that something in connection with his papers and possessions&mdash;it
      might or might not be the Secret Trust&mdash;irritated and annoyed him
      from time to time. She had heard him more than once lock something up in
      one of the rooms, come out and go into another room, wait there a few
      minutes, then return to the first room with his keys in his hand, and
      sharply turn the locks and turn them again. This fidgety anxiety about his
      keys and his cupboards might be the result of the inbred restlessness of
      his disposition, aggravated in a naturally active man by the aimless
      indolence of a life in retirement&mdash;a life drifting backward and
      forward among trifles, with no regular employment to steady it at any
      given hour of the day. On the other hand, it was just as probable that
      these comings and goings, these lockings and unlockings, might be
      attributable to the existence of some private responsibility which had
      unexpectedly intruded itself into the old man&rsquo;s easy existence, and which
      tormented him with a sense of oppression new to the experience of his
      later years. Either one of these interpretations might explain his conduct
      as reasonably and as probably as the other. Which was the right
      interpretation of the two, it was, in Magdalen&rsquo;s position, impossible to
      say.
    </p>
    <p>
      The one certain discovery at which she arrived was made in her first day&rsquo;s
      observation of him. The admiral was a rigidly careful man with his keys.
    </p>
    <p>
      All the smaller keys he kept on a ring in the breast-pocket of his coat.
      The larger he locked up together; generally, but not always, in one of the
      drawers of the library table. Sometimes he left them secured in this way
      at night; sometimes he took them up to the bedroom with him in a little
      basket. He had no regular times for leaving them or for taking them away
      with him; he had no discoverable reason for now securing them in the
      library-table drawer, and now again locking them up in some other place.
      The inveterate willfulness and caprice of his proceedings in these
      particulars defied every effort to reduce them to a system, and baffled
      all attempts at calculating on them beforehand.
    </p>
    <p>
      The hope of gaining positive information to act on, by laying artful
      snares for him which he might fall into in his talk, proved, from the
      outset, to be utterly futile.
    </p>
    <p>
      In Magdalen&rsquo;s situation all experiments of this sort would have been in
      the last degree difficult and dangerous with any man. With the admiral
      they were simply impossible. His tendency to veer about from one subject
      to another; his habit of keeping his tongue perpetually going, so long as
      there was anybody, no matter whom, within reach of the sound of his voice;
      his comical want of all dignity and reserve with his servants, promised,
      in appearance, much, and performed in reality nothing. No matter how
      diffidently or how respectfully Magdalen might presume on her master&rsquo;s
      example, and on her master&rsquo;s evident liking for her, the old man instantly
      discovered the advance she was making from her proper position, and
      instantly put her back in it again, with a quaint good humor which
      inflicted no pain, but with a blunt straightforwardness of purpose which
      permitted no escape. Contradictory as it may sound, Admiral Bartram was
      too familiar to be approached; he kept the distance between himself and
      his servant more effectually than if he had been the proudest man in
      England. The systematic reserve of a superior toward an inferior may be
      occasionally overcome&mdash;the systematic familiarity never.
    </p>
    <p>
      Slowly the time dragged on. The fourth week came; and Magdalen had made no
      new discoveries. The prospect was depressing in the last degree. Even in
      the apparently hopeless event of her devising a means of getting at the
      admiral&rsquo;s keys, she could not count on retaining possession of them
      unsuspected more than a few hours&mdash;hours which might be utterly
      wasted through her not knowing in what direction to begin the search. The
      Trust might be locked up in any one of some twenty receptacles for papers,
      situated in four different rooms; and which room was the likeliest to look
      in, which receptacle was the most promising to begin with, which position
      among other heaps of papers the one paper needful might be expected to
      occupy, was more than she could say. Hemmed in by immeasurable
      uncertainties on every side; condemned, as it were, to wander blindfold on
      the very brink of success, she waited for the chance that never came, for
      the event that never happened, with a patience which was sinking already
      into the patience of despair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Night after night she looked back over the vanished days, and not an event
      rose on her memory to distinguish them one from the other. The only
      interruptions to the weary uniformity of the life at St. Crux were caused
      by the characteristic delinquencies of old Mazey and the dogs.
    </p>
    <p>
      At certain intervals, the original wildness broke out in the natures of
      Brutus and Cassius. The modest comforts of home, the savory charms of made
      dishes, the decorous joy of digestions accomplished on hearth-rugs, lost
      all their attractions, and the dogs ungratefully left the house to seek
      dissipation and adventure in the outer world. On these occasions the
      established after-dinner formula of question and answer between old Mazey
      and his master varied a little in one particular. &ldquo;God bless the Queen,
      Mazey,&rdquo; and &ldquo;How&rsquo;s the wind, Mazey?&rdquo; were followed by a new inquiry:
      &ldquo;Where are the dogs, Mazey?&rdquo; &ldquo;Out on the loose, your honor, and be damned
      to &lsquo;em,&rdquo; was the veteran&rsquo;s unvarying answer. The admiral always sighed and
      shook his head gravely at the news, as if Brutus and Cassius had been sons
      of his own, who treated him with a want of proper filial respect. In two
      or three days&rsquo; time the dogs always returned, lean, dirty, and heartily
      ashamed of themselves. For the whole of the next day they were invariably
      tied up in disgrace. On the day after they were scrubbed clean, and were
      formally re-admitted to the dining-room. There, Civilization, acting
      through the subtle medium of the Saucepan, recovered its hold on them; and
      the admiral&rsquo;s two prodigal sons, when they saw the covers removed, watered
      at the mouth as copiously as ever.
    </p>
    <p>
      Old Mazey, in his way, proved to be just as disreputably inclined on
      certain occasions as the dogs. At intervals, the original wildness in <i>his</i>
      nature broke out; he, too, lost all relish for the comforts of home, and
      ungratefully left the house. He usually disappeared in the afternoon, and
      returned at night as drunk as liquor could make him. He was by many
      degrees too seasoned a vessel to meet with any disasters on these
      occasions. His wicked old legs might take roundabout methods of
      progression, but they never failed him; his wicked old eyes might see
      double, but they always showed him the way home. Try as hard as they
      might, the servants could never succeed in persuading him that he was
      drunk; he always scorned the imputation. He even declined to admit the
      idea privately into his mind, until he had first tested his condition by
      an infallible criterion of his own.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was his habit, in these cases of Bacchanalian emergency, to stagger
      obstinately into his room on the ground-floor, to take the model-ship out
      of the cupboard, and to try if he could proceed with the
      never-to-be-completed employment of setting up the rigging. When he had
      smashed the tiny spars, and snapped asunder the delicate ropes&mdash;then,
      and not till then, the veteran admitted facts as they were, on the
      authority of practical evidence. &ldquo;Ay! ay!&rdquo; he used to say confidentially
      to himself, &ldquo;the women are right. Drunk again, Mazey&mdash;drunk again!&rdquo;
       Having reached this discovery, it was his habit to wait cunningly in the
      lower regions until the admiral was safe in his room, and then to ascend
      in discreet list slippers to his post. Too wary to attempt getting into
      the truckle-bed (which would have been only inviting the catastrophe of a
      fall against his master&rsquo;s door), he always walked himself sober up and
      down the passage. More than once Magdalen had peeped round the screen, and
      had seen the old sailor unsteadily keeping his watch, and fancying himself
      once more at his duty on board ship. &ldquo;This is an uncommonly lively vessel
      in a sea-way,&rdquo; he used to mutter under his breath, when his legs took him
      down the passage in zigzag directions, or left him for the moment studying
      the &ldquo;Pints of the Compass&rdquo; on his own system, with his back against the
      wall. &ldquo;A nasty night, mind you,&rdquo; he would maunder on, taking another turn.
      &ldquo;As dark as your pocket, and the wind heading us again from the old
      quarter.&rdquo; On the next day old Mazey, like the dogs, was kept downstairs in
      disgrace. On the day after, like the dogs again, he was reinstated in his
      privileges; and another change was introduced in the after-dinner formula.
      On entering the room, the old sailor stopped short and made his excuses in
      this brief yet comprehensive form of words, with his back against the
      door: &ldquo;Please your honor, I&rsquo;m ashamed of myself.&rdquo; So the apology began and
      ended. &ldquo;This mustn&rsquo;t happen again, Mazey,&rdquo; the admiral used to answer. &ldquo;It
      shan&rsquo;t happen again, your honor.&rdquo; &ldquo;Very good. Come here, and drink your
      glass of wine. God bless the Queen, Mazey.&rdquo; The veteran tossed off his
      port, and the dialogue ended as usual.
    </p>
    <p>
      So the days passed, with no incidents more important than these to relieve
      their monotony, until the end of the fourth week was at hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the last day, an event happened; on the last day, the long deferred
      promise of the future unexpectedly began to dawn. While Magdalen was
      spreading the cloth in the dining-room, as usual, Mrs. Drake looked in,
      and instructed her on this occasion, for the first time, to lay the table
      for two persons. The admiral had received a letter from his nephew. Early
      that evening Mr. George Bartram was expected to return to St. Crux.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      AFTER placing the second cover, Magdalen awaited the ringing of the
      dinner-bell, with an interest and impatience which she found it no easy
      task to conceal. The return of Mr. Bartram would, in all probability,
      produce a change in the life of the house; and from change of any kind, no
      matter how trifling, something might be hoped. The nephew might be
      accessible to influences which had failed to reach the uncle. In any case,
      the two would talk of their affairs over their dinner; and through that
      talk&mdash;proceeding day after day in her presence&mdash;the way to
      discovery, now absolutely invisible, might, sooner or later, show itself.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last the bell rang, the door opened, and the two gentlemen entered the
      room together.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen was struck, as her sister had been struck, by George Bartram&rsquo;s
      resemblance to her father&mdash;judging by the portrait at Combe-Raven,
      which presented the likeness of Andrew Vanstone in his younger days. The
      light hair and florid complexion, the bright blue eyes and hardy upright
      figure, familiar to her in the picture, were all recalled to her memory,
      as the nephew followed the uncle across the room and took his place at
      table. She was not prepared for this sudden revival of the lost
      associations of home. Her attention wandered as she tried to conceal its
      effect on her; and she made a blunder in waiting at table, for the first
      time since she had entered the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      A quaint reprimand from the admiral, half in jest, half in earnest, gave
      her time to recover herself. She ventured another look at George Bartram.
      The impression which he produced on her this time roused her curiosity
      immediately. His face and manner plainly expressed anxiety and
      preoccupation of mind. He looked oftener at his plate than at his uncle,
      and at Magdalen herself (except one passing inspection of the new
      parlor-maid, when the admiral spoke to her) he never looked at all. Some
      uncertainty was evidently troubling his thoughts; some oppression was
      weighing on his natural freedom of manner. What uncertainty? what
      oppression? Would any personal revelations come out, little by little, in
      the course of conversation at the dinner-table?
    </p>
    <p>
      No. One set of dishes followed another set of dishes, and nothing in the
      shape of a personal revelation took place. The conversation halted on
      irregularly, between public affairs on one side and trifling private
      topics on the other. Politics, home and foreign, took their turn with the
      small household history of St. Crux; the leaders of the revolution which
      expelled Louis Philippe from the throne of France marched side by side, in
      the dinner-table review, with old Mazey and the dogs. The dessert was put
      on the table, the old sailor came in, drank his loyal toast, paid his
      respects to &ldquo;Master George,&rdquo; and went out again. Magdalen followed him, on
      her way back to the servants&rsquo; offices, having heard nothing in the
      conversation of the slightest importance to the furtherance of her own
      design, from the first word of it to the last. She struggled hard not to
      lose heart and hope on the first day. They could hardly talk again
      to-morrow, they could hardly talk again the next day, of the French
      Revolution and the dogs. Time might do wonders yet; and time was all her
      own.
    </p>
    <p>
      Left together over their wine, the uncle and nephew drew their easy-chairs
      on either side of the fire; and, in Magdalen&rsquo;s absence, began the very
      conversation which it was Magdalen&rsquo;s interest to hear.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Claret, George?&rdquo; said the admiral, pushing the bottle across the table.
      &ldquo;You look out of spirits.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am a little anxious, sir,&rdquo; replied George, leaving his glass empty, and
      looking straight into the fire.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am glad to hear it,&rdquo; rejoined the admiral. &ldquo;I am more than a little
      anxious myself, I can tell you. Here we are at the last days of March&mdash;and
      nothing done! Your time comes to an end on the third of May; and there you
      sit, as if you had years still before you, to turn round in.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George smiled, and resignedly helped himself to some wine.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Am I really to understand, sir,&rdquo; he asked, &ldquo;that you are serious in what
      you said to me last November? Are you actually resolved to bind me to that
      incomprehensible condition?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t call it incomprehensible,&rdquo; said the admiral, irritably.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you, sir? I am to inherit your estate, unconditionally&mdash;as you
      have generously settled it from the first. But I am not to touch a
      farthing of the fortune poor Noel left you unless I am married within a
      certain time. The house and lands are to be mine (thanks to your kindness)
      under any circumstances. But the money with which I might improve them
      both is to be arbitrarily taken away from me, if I am not a married man on
      the third of May. I am sadly wanting in intelligence, I dare say, but a
      more incomprehensible proceeding I never heard of!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No snapping and snarling, George! Say your say out. We don&rsquo;t understand
      sneering in Her Majesty&rsquo;s Navy!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I mean no offense, sir. But I think it&rsquo;s a little hard to astonish me by
      a change of proceeding on your part, entirely foreign to my experience of
      your character&mdash;and then, when I naturally ask for an explanation, to
      turn round coolly and leave me in the dark. If you and Noel came to some
      private arrangement together before he made his will, why not tell me? Why
      set up a mystery between us, where no mystery need be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I won&rsquo;t have it, George!&rdquo; cried the admiral, angrily drumming on the
      table with the nutcrackers. &ldquo;You are trying to draw me like a badger, but
      I won&rsquo;t be drawn! I&rsquo;ll make any conditions I please; and I&rsquo;ll be
      accountable to nobody for them unless I like. It&rsquo;s quite bad enough to
      have worries and responsibilities laid on my unlucky shoulders that I
      never bargained for&mdash;never mind what worries: they&rsquo;re not yours,
      they&rsquo;re mine&mdash;without being questioned and cross-questioned as if I
      was a witness in a box. Here&rsquo;s a pretty fellow!&rdquo; continued the admiral,
      apostrophizing his nephew in red-hot irritation, and addressing himself to
      the dogs on the hearth-rug for want of a better audience. &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s a pretty
      fellow? He is asked to help himself to two uncommonly comfortable things
      in their way&mdash;a fortune and a wife; he is allowed six months to get
      the wife in (we should have got her, in the Navy, bag and baggage, in six
      days); he has a round dozen of nice girls, to my certain knowledge, in one
      part of the country and another, all at his disposal to choose from, and
      what does he do? He sits month after month, with his lazy legs crossed
      before him; he leaves the girls to pine on the stem, and he bothers his
      uncle to know the reason why! I pity the poor unfortunate women. Men were
      made of flesh and blood, and plenty of it, too, in my time. They&rsquo;re made
      of machinery now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I can only repeat, sir, I am sorry to have offended you,&rdquo; said George.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pooh! pooh! you needn&rsquo;t look at me in that languishing way if you are,&rdquo;
       retorted the admiral. &ldquo;Stick to your wine, and I&rsquo;ll forgive you. Your good
      health, George. I&rsquo;m glad to see you again at St. Crux. Look at that
      plateful of sponge-cakes! The cook has sent them up in honor of your
      return. We can&rsquo;t hurt her feelings, and we can&rsquo;t spoil our wine. Here!&rdquo;&mdash;The
      admiral tossed four sponge-cakes in quick succession down the
      accommodating throats of the dogs. &ldquo;I am sorry, George,&rdquo; the old gentleman
      gravely proceeded; &ldquo;I am really sorry you haven&rsquo;t got your eye on one of
      those nice girls. You don&rsquo;t know what a loss you&rsquo;re inflicting on
      yourself; you don&rsquo;t know what trouble and mortification you&rsquo;re causing me
      by this shilly-shally conduct of yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you would only allow me to explain myself, sir, you would view my
      conduct in a totally different light. I am ready to marry to-morrow, if
      the lady will have me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The devil you are! So you have got a lady in your eye, after all? Why in
      Heaven&rsquo;s name couldn&rsquo;t you tell me so before? Never mind, I&rsquo;ll forgive you
      everything, now I know you have laid your hand on a wife. Fill your glass
      again. Here&rsquo;s her health in a bumper. By-the-by, who is she?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll tell you directly, admiral. When we began this conversation, I
      mentioned that I was a little anxious&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She&rsquo;s not one of my round dozen of nice girls&mdash;aha, Master George, I
      see that in your face already! Why are you anxious?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am afraid you will disapprove of my choice, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t beat about the bush! How the deuce can I say whether I disapprove
      or not, if you won&rsquo;t tell me who she is?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She is the eldest daughter of Andrew Vanstone, of Combe-Raven.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Who!!!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Miss Vanstone, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The admiral put down his glass of wine untasted.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re right, George,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I do disapprove of your choice &mdash;strongly
      disapprove of it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it the misfortune of her birth, sir, that you object to?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;God forbid! the misfortune of her birth is not her fault, poor thing. You
      know as well as I do, George, what I object to.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You object to her sister?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly! The most liberal man alive might object to her sister, I
      think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s hard, sir, to make Miss Vanstone suffer for her sister&rsquo;s faults.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;<i>Faults</i>, do you call them? You have a mighty convenient memory,
      George, when your own interests are concerned.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Call them crimes if you like, sir&mdash;I say again, it&rsquo;s hard on Miss
      Vanstone. Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s life is pure of all reproach. From first to last
      she has borne her hard lot with such patience, and sweetness, and courage
      as not one woman in a thousand would have shown in her place. Ask Miss
      Garth, who has known her from childhood. Ask Mrs. Tyrrel, who blesses the
      day when she came into the house&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ask a fiddlestick&rsquo;s end! I beg your pardon, George, but you are enough to
      try the patience of a saint. My good fellow, I don&rsquo;t deny Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s
      virtues. I&rsquo;ll admit, if you like, she&rsquo;s the best woman that ever put on a
      petticoat. That is not the question&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse me, admiral&mdash;it <i>is</i> the question, if she is to be my
      wife.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hear me out, George; look at it from my point of view, as well as your
      own. What did your cousin Noel do? Your cousin Noel fell a victim, poor
      fellow, to one of the vilest conspiracies I ever heard of, and the prime
      mover of that conspiracy was Miss Vanstone&rsquo;s damnable sister. She deceived
      him in the most infamous manner; and as soon as she was down for a
      handsome legacy in his will, she had the poison ready to take his life.
      This is the truth; we know it from Mrs. Lecount, who found the bottle
      locked up in her own room. If you marry Miss Vanstone, you make this
      wretch your sister-in-law. She becomes a member of our family. All the
      disgrace of what she has done; all the disgrace of what she <i>may</i> do&mdash;and
      the Devil, who possesses her, only knows what lengths she may go to next&mdash;becomes
      <i>our</i> disgrace. Good heavens, George, consider what a position that
      is! Consider what pitch you touch, if you make this woman your
      sister-in-law.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have put your side of the question, admiral,&rdquo; said George resolutely;
      &ldquo;now let me put mine. A certain impression is produced on me by a young
      lady whom I meet with under very interesting circumstances. I don&rsquo;t act
      headlong on that impression, as I might have done if I had been some years
      younger; I wait, and put it to the trial. Every time I see this young lady
      the impression strengthens; her beauty grows on me, her character grows on
      me; when I am away from her, I am restless and dissatisfied; when I am
      with her, I am the happiest man alive. All I hear of her conduct from
      those who know her best more than confirms the high opinion I have formed
      of her. The one drawback I can discover is caused by a misfortune for
      which she is not responsible&mdash;the misfortune of having a sister who
      is utterly unworthy of her. Does this discovery&mdash;an unpleasant
      discovery, I grant you&mdash;destroy all those good qualities in Miss
      Vanstone for which I love and admire her? Nothing of the sort&mdash;it
      only makes her good qualities all the more precious to me by contrast. If
      I am to have a drawback to contend with&mdash;and who expects anything
      else in this world?&mdash;I would infinitely rather have the drawback
      attached to my wife&rsquo;s sister than to my wife. My wife&rsquo;s sister is not
      essential to my happiness, but my wife is. In my opinion, sir, Mrs. Noel
      Vanstone has done mischief enough already. I don&rsquo;t see the necessity of
      letting her do more mischief, by depriving me of a good wife. Right or
      wrong, that is my point of view. I don&rsquo;t wish to trouble you with any
      questions of sentiment. All I wish to say is that I am old enough by this
      time to know my own mind, and that my mind is made up. If my marriage is
      essential to the execution of your intentions on my behalf, there is only
      one woman in the world whom I <i>can</i> marry, and that woman is Miss
      Vanstone.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was no resisting this plain declaration. Admiral Bartram rose from
      his chair without making any reply, and walked perturbedly up and down the
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The situation was emphatically a serious one. Mrs. Girdlestone&rsquo;s death had
      already produced the failure of one of the two objects contemplated by the
      Secret Trust. If the third of May arrived and found George a single man,
      the second (and last) of the objects would then have failed in its turn.
      In little more than a fortnight, at the very latest, the Banns must be
      published in Ossory church, or the time would fail for compliance with one
      of the stipulations insisted on in the Trust. Obstinate as the admiral was
      by nature, strongly as he felt the objections which attached to his
      nephew&rsquo;s contemplated alliance, he recoiled in spite of himself, as he
      paced the room and saw the facts on either side immovably staring him in
      the face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Are you engaged to Miss Vanstone?&rdquo; he asked, suddenly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, sir,&rdquo; replied George. &ldquo;I thought it due to your uniform kindness to
      me to speak to you on the subject first.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Much obliged, I&rsquo;m sure. And you have put off speaking to me to the last
      moment, just as you put off everything else. Do you think Miss Vanstone
      will say yes when you ask her?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George hesitated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The devil take your modesty!&rdquo; shouted the admiral. &ldquo;This is not a time
      for modesty; this is a time for speaking out. Will she or won&rsquo;t she?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I think she will, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The admiral laughed sardonically, and took another turn in the room. He
      suddenly stopped, put his hands in his pockets, and stood still in a
      corner, deep in thought. After an interval of a few minutes, his face
      cleared a little; it brightened with the dawning of a new idea. He walked
      round briskly to George&rsquo;s side of the fire, and laid his hand kindly on
      his nephew&rsquo;s shoulder.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You&rsquo;re wrong, George,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;but it is too late now to set you right.
      On the sixteenth of next month the Banns must be put up in Ossory church,
      or you will lose the money. Have you told Miss Vanstone the position you
      stand in? Or have you put that off to the eleventh hour, like everything
      else?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The position is so extraordinary, sir, and it might lead to so much
      misapprehension of my motives, that I have felt unwilling to allude to it.
      I hardly know how I can tell her of it at all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Try the experiment of telling her friends. Let them know it&rsquo;s a question
      of money, and they will overcome her scruples, if you can&rsquo;t. But that is
      not what I had to say to you. How long do you propose stopping here this
      time?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought of staying a few days, and then&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;And then of going back to London and making your offer, I suppose? Will a
      week give you time enough to pick your opportunity with Miss Vanstone&mdash;a
      week out of the fortnight or so that you have to spare?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will stay here a week, admiral, with pleasure, if you wish it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t wish it. I want you to pack up your traps and be off to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George looked at his uncle in silent astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You found some letters waiting for you when you got here,&rdquo; proceeded the
      admiral. &ldquo;Was one of those letters from my old friend, Sir Franklin
      Brock?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Was it an invitation to you to go and stay at the Grange?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To go at once?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At once, if I could manage it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very good. I want you to manage it; I want you to start for the Grange
      to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      George looked back at the fire, and sighed impatiently.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I understand you now, admiral,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You are entirely mistaken in
      me. My attachment to Miss Vanstone is not to be shaken in <i>that</i>
      manner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Admiral Bartram took his quarter-deck walk again, up and down the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One good turn deserves another, George,&rdquo; said the old gentleman. &ldquo;If I am
      willing to make concessions on my side, the least you can do is to meet me
      half-way, and make concessions on yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t deny it, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well. Now listen to my proposal. Give me a fair hearing, George&mdash;a
      fair hearing is every man&rsquo;s privilege. I will be perfectly just to begin
      with. I won&rsquo;t attempt to deny that you honestly believe Miss Vanstone is
      the only woman in the world who can make you happy. I don&rsquo;t question that.
      What I do question is, whether you really know your own mind in this
      matter quite so well as you think you know it yourself. You can&rsquo;t deny,
      George, that you have been in love with a good many women in your time?
      Among the rest of them, you have been in love with Miss Brock. No longer
      ago than this time last year there was a sneaking kindness between you and
      that young lady, to say the least of it. And quite right, too! Miss Brock
      is one of that round dozen of darlings I mentioned over our first glass of
      wine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You are confusing an idle flirtation, sir, with a serious attachment,&rdquo;
       said George. &ldquo;You are altogether mistaken&mdash;you are, indeed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Likely enough; I don&rsquo;t pretend to be infallible&mdash;I leave that to my
      juniors. But I happen to have known you, George, since you were the height
      of my old telescope; and I want to have this serious attachment of yours
      put to the test. If you can satisfy me that your whole heart and soul are
      as strongly set on Miss Vanstone as you suppose them to be, I must knock
      under to necessity, and keep my objections to myself. But I <i>must</i> be
      satisfied first. Go to the Grange to-morrow, and stay there a week in Miss
      Brock&rsquo;s society. Give that charming girl a fair chance of lighting up the
      old flame again if she can, and then come back to St. Crux, and let me
      hear the result. If you tell me, as an honest man, that your attachment to
      Miss Vanstone still remains unshaken, you will have heard the last of my
      objections from that moment. Whatever misgivings I may feel in my own
      mind, I will say nothing, and do nothing, adverse to your wishes. There is
      my proposal. I dare say it looks like an old man&rsquo;s folly, in your eyes.
      But the old man won&rsquo;t trouble you much longer, George; and it may be a
      pleasant reflection, when you have got sons of your own, to remember that
      you humored him in his last days.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He came back to the fire-place as he said those words, and laid his hand
      once more on his nephew&rsquo;s shoulder. George took the hand and pressed it
      affectionately. In the tenderest and best sense of the word, his uncle had
      been a father to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will do what you ask me, sir,&rdquo; he replied, &ldquo;if you seriously wish it.
      But it is only right to tell you that the experiment will be perfectly
      useless. However, if you prefer my passing a week at the Grange to my
      passing it here, to the Grange I will go.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Thank you, George,&rdquo; said the admiral, bluntly. &ldquo;I expected as much from
      you, and you have not disappointed me.&mdash;If Miss Brock doesn&rsquo;t get us
      out of this mess,&rdquo; thought the wily old gentleman, as he resumed his place
      at the table, &ldquo;my nephew&rsquo;s weather-cock of a head has turned steady with a
      vengeance!&mdash;We&rsquo;ll consider the question settled for to-night,
      George,&rdquo; he continued, aloud, &ldquo;and call another subject. These family
      anxieties don&rsquo;t improve the flavor of my old claret. The bottle stands
      with you. What are they doing at the theaters in London? We always
      patronized the theaters, in my time, in the Navy. We used to like a good
      tragedy to begin with, and a hornpipe to cheer us up at the end of the
      entertainment.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      For the rest of the evening, the talk flowed in the ordinary channels.
      Admiral Bartram only returned to the forbidden subject when he and his
      nephew parted for the night.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You won&rsquo;t forget to-morrow, George?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly not, sir. I&rsquo;ll take the dog-cart, and drive myself over after
      breakfast.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before noon the next day Mr. George Bartram had left the house, and the
      last chance in Magdalen&rsquo;s favor had left it with him.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      WHEN the servants&rsquo; dinner-bell at St. Crux rang as usual on the day of
      George Bartram&rsquo;s departure, it was remarked that the new parlor-maid&rsquo;s
      place at table remained empty. One of the inferior servants was sent to
      her room to make inquiries, and returned with the information that
      &ldquo;Louisa&rdquo; felt a little faint, and begged that her attendance at table
      might be excused for that day. Upon this, the superior authority of the
      housekeeper was invoked, and Mrs. Drake went upstairs immediately to
      ascertain the truth for herself. Her first look of inquiry satisfied her
      that the parlor-maid&rsquo;s indisposition, whatever the cause of it might be,
      was certainly not assumed to serve any idle or sullen purpose of her own.
      She respectfully declined taking any of the remedies which the housekeeper
      offered, and merely requested permission to try the efficacy of a walk in
      the fresh air.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have been accustomed to more exercise, ma&rsquo;am, than I take here,&rdquo; she
      said. &ldquo;Might I go into the garden, and try what the air will do for me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly. Can you walk by yourself, or shall I send some one with you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will go by myself, if you please, ma&rsquo;am.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well. Put on your bonnet and shawl, and, when you get out, keep in
      the east garden. The admiral sometimes walks in the north garden, and he
      might feel surprised at seeing you there. Come to my room, when you have
      had air and exercise enough, and let me see how you are.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      In a few minutes more Magdalen was out in the east garden. The sky was
      clear and sunny; but the cold shadow of the house rested on the garden
      walk and chilled the midday air. She walked toward the ruins of the old
      monastery, situated on the south side of the more modern range of
      buildings. Here there were lonely open spaces to breathe in freely; here
      the pale March sunshine stole through the gaps of desolation and decay,
      and met her invitingly with the genial promise of spring.
    </p>
    <p>
      She ascended three or four riven stone steps, and seated herself on some
      ruined fragments beyond them, full in the sunshine. The place she had
      chosen had once been the entrance to the church. In centuries long gone
      by, the stream of human sin and human suffering had flowed, day after day,
      to the confessional, over the place where she now sat. Of all the
      miserable women who had trodden those old stones in the bygone time, no
      more miserable creature had touched them than the woman whose feet rested
      on them now.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her hands trembled as she placed them on either side of her, to support
      herself on the stone seat. She laid them on her lap; they trembled there.
      She held them out, and looked at them wonderingly; they trembled as she
      looked. &ldquo;Like an old woman!&rdquo; she said, faintly, and let them drop again at
      her side.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the first time, that morning, the cruel discovery had forced itself on
      her mind&mdash;the discovery that her strength was failing her, at the
      time when she had most confidently trusted to it, at the time when she
      wanted it most. She had felt the surprise of Mr. Bartram&rsquo;s unexpected
      departure, as if it had been the shock of the severest calamity that could
      have befallen her. That one check to her hopes&mdash;a check which at
      other times would only have roused the resisting power in her to new
      efforts&mdash;had struck her with as suffocating a terror, had prostrated
      her with as all-mastering a despair, as if she had been overwhelmed by the
      crowning disaster of expulsion from St. Crux. But one warning could be
      read in such a change as this. Into the space of little more than a year
      she had crowded the wearing and wasting emotions of a life. The bountiful
      gifts of health and strength, so prodigally heaped on her by Nature, so
      long abused with impunity, were failing her at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked up at the far faint blue of the sky. She heard the joyous
      singing of birds among the ivy that clothed the ruins. Oh the cold
      distance of the heavens! Oh the pitiless happiness of the birds! Oh the
      lonely horror of sitting there, and feeling old and weak and worn, in the
      heyday of her youth! She rose with a last effort of resolution, and tried
      to keep back the hysterical passion swelling at her heart by moving and
      looking about her. Rapidly and more rapidly she walked to and fro in the
      sunshine. The exercise helped her, through the very fatigue that she felt
      from it. She forced the rising tears desperately back to their sources;
      she fought with the clinging pain, and wrenched it from its hold. Little
      by little her mind began to clear again: the despairing fear of herself
      grew less vividly present to her thoughts. There were reserves of youth
      and strength in her still to be wasted; there was a spirit sorely wounded,
      but not yet subdued.
    </p>
    <p>
      She gradually extended the limits of her walk; she gradually recovered the
      exercise of her observation.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the western extremity the remains of the monastery were in a less
      ruinous condition than at the eastern. In certain places, where the stout
      old walls still stood, repairs had been made at some former time. Roofs of
      red tile had been laid roughly over four of the ancient cells; wooden
      doors had been added; and the old monastic chambers had been used as sheds
      to hold the multifarious lumber of St. Crux. No padlocks guarded any of
      the doors. Magdalen had only to push them to let the daylight in on the
      litter inside. She resolved to investigate the sheds one after the other&mdash;not
      from curiosity, not with the idea of making discoveries of any sort. Her
      only object was to fill up the vacant time, and to keep the thoughts that
      unnerved her from returning to her mind.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first shed she opened contained the gardener&rsquo;s utensils, large and
      small. The second was littered with fragments of broken furniture, empty
      picture-frames of worm-eaten wood, shattered vases, boxes without covers,
      and books torn from their bindings. As Magdalen turned to leave the shed,
      after one careless glance round her at the lumber that it contained, her
      foot struck something on the ground which tinkled against a fragment of
      china lying near it. She stooped, and discovered that the tinkling
      substance was a rusty key.
    </p>
    <p>
      She picked up the key and looked at it. She walked out into the air, and
      considered a little. More old forgotten keys were probably lying about
      among the lumber in the sheds. What if she collected all she could find,
      and tried them, one after another, in the locks of the cabinets and
      cupboards now closed against her? Was there chance enough that any one of
      them might fit to justify her in venturing on the experiment? If the locks
      at St. Crux were as old-fashioned as the furniture&mdash;if there were no
      protective niceties of modern invention to contend against&mdash;there was
      chance enough beyond all question. Who could say whether the very key in
      her hand might not be the lost duplicate of one of the keys on the
      admiral&rsquo;s bunch? In the dearth of all other means of finding the way to
      her end, the risk was worth running. A flash of the old spirit sparkled in
      her weary eyes as she turned and re-entered the shed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Half an hour more brought her to the limits of the time which she could
      venture to allow herself in the open air. In that interval she had
      searched the sheds from first to last, and had found five more keys. &ldquo;Five
      more chances!&rdquo; she thought to herself, as she hid the keys, and hastily
      returned to the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      After first reporting herself in the housekeeper&rsquo;s room, she went upstairs
      to remove her bonnet and shawl; taking that opportunity to hide the keys
      in her bed-chamber until night came. They were crusted thick with rust and
      dirt; but she dared not attempt to clean them until bed-time secluded her
      from the prying eyes of the servants in the solitude of her room.
    </p>
    <p>
      When the dinner hour brought her, as usual, into personal contact with the
      admiral, she was at once struck by a change in him. For the first time in
      her experience the old gentleman was silent and depressed. He ate less
      than usual, and he hardly said five words to her from the beginning of the
      meal to the end. Some unwelcome subject of reflection had evidently fixed
      itself on his mind, and remained there persistently, in spite of his
      efforts to shake it off. At intervals through the evening, she wondered
      with an ever-growing perplexity what the subject could be.
    </p>
    <p>
      At last the lagging hours reached their end, and bed-time came. Before she
      slept that night Magdalen had cleaned the keys from all impurities, and
      had oiled the wards, to help them smoothly into the locks. The last
      difficulty that remained was the difficulty of choosing the time when the
      experiment might be tried with the least risk of interruption and
      discovery. After carefully considering the question overnight, Magdalen
      could only resolve to wait and be guided by the events of the next day.
    </p>
    <p>
      The morning came, and for the first time at St. Crux events justified the
      trust she had placed in them. The morning came, and the one remaining
      difficulty that perplexed her was unexpectedly smoothed away by no less a
      person than the admiral himself! To the surprise of every one in the
      house, he announced at breakfast that he had arranged to start for London
      in an hour; that he should pass the night in town; and that he might be
      expected to return to St. Crux in time for dinner on the next day. He
      volunteered no further explanations to the housekeeper or to any one else,
      but it was easy to see that his errand to London was of no ordinary
      importance in his own estimation. He swallowed his breakfast in a violent
      hurry, and he was impatiently ready for the carriage before it came to the
      door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Experience had taught Magdalen to be cautious. She waited a little, after
      Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s departure, before she ventured on trying her experiment
      with the keys. It was well she did so. Mrs. Drake took advantage of the
      admiral&rsquo;s absence to review the condition of the apartments on the first
      floor. The results of the investigation by no means satisfied her; brooms
      and dusters were set to work; and the house-maids were in and out of the
      rooms perpetually, as long as the daylight lasted.
    </p>
    <p>
      The evening passed, and still the safe opportunity for which Magdalen was
      on the watch never presented itself. Bed-time came again, and found her
      placed between the two alternatives of trusting to the doubtful chances of
      the next morning, or of trying the keys boldly in the dead of night. In
      former times she would have made her choice without hesitation. She
      hesitated now; but the wreck of her old courage still sustained her, and
      she determined to make the venture at night.
    </p>
    <p>
      They kept early hours at St. Crux. If she waited in her room until
      half-past eleven, she would wait long enough. At that time she stole out
      on to the staircase, with the keys in her pocket, and the candle in her
      hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      On passing the entrance to the corridor on the bedroom floor, she stopped
      and listened. No sound of snoring, no shuffling of infirm footsteps was to
      be heard on the other side of the screen. She looked round it
      distrustfully. The stone passage was a solitude, and the truckle-bed was
      empty. Her own eyes had shown her old Mazey on his way to the upper
      regions, more than an hour since, with a candle in his hand. Had he taken
      advantage of his master&rsquo;s absence to enjoy the unaccustomed luxury of
      sleeping in a room? As the thought occurred to her, a sound from the
      further end of the corridor just caught her ear. She softly advanced
      toward it, and heard through the door of the last and remotest of the
      spare bed-chambers the veteran&rsquo;s lusty snoring in the room inside. The
      discovery was startling, in more senses than one. It deepened the
      impenetrable mystery of the truckle-bed; for it showed plainly that old
      Mazey had no barbarous preference of his own for passing his nights in the
      corridor; he occupied that strange and comfortless sleeping-place purely
      and entirely on his master&rsquo;s account.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was no time for dwelling on the reflections which this conclusion might
      suggest. Magdalen retraced her steps along the passage, and descended to
      the first floor. Passing the doors nearest to her, she tried the library
      first. On the staircase and in the corridors she had felt her heart
      throbbing fast with an unutterable fear; but a sense of security returned
      to her when she found herself within the four walls of the room, and when
      she had closed the door on the ghostly quiet outside.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first lock she tried was the lock of the table-drawer. None of the
      keys fitted it. Her next experiment was made on the cabinet. Would the
      second attempt fail, like the first?
    </p>
    <p>
      No! One of the keys fitted; one of the keys, with a little patient
      management, turned the lock. She looked in eagerly. There were open
      shelves above, and one long drawer under them. The shelves were devoted to
      specimens of curious minerals, neatly labeled and arranged. The drawer was
      divided into compartments. Two of the compartments contained papers. In
      the first, she discovered nothing but a collection of receipted bills. In
      the second, she found a heap of business documents; but the writing,
      yellow with age, was enough of itself to warn her that the Trust was not
      there. She shut the doors of the cabinet, and, after locking them again
      with some little difficulty, proceeded to try the keys in the bookcase
      cupboards next, before she continued her investigations in the other
      rooms.
    </p>
    <p>
      The bookcase cupboards were unassailable, the drawers and cupboards in all
      the other rooms were unassailable. One after another she tried them
      patiently in regular succession. It was useless. The chance which the
      cabinet in the library had offered in her favor was the first chance and
      the last.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went back to her room, seeing nothing but her own gliding shadow,
      hearing nothing but her own stealthy footfall in the midnight stillness of
      the house. After mechanically putting the keys away in their former
      hiding-place, she looked toward her bed, and turned away from it,
      shuddering. The warning remembrance of what she had suffered that morning
      in the garden was vividly present to her mind. &ldquo;Another chance tried,&rdquo; she
      thought to herself, &ldquo;and another chance lost! I shall break down again if
      I think of it; and I shall think of it if I lie awake in the dark.&rdquo; She
      had brought a work-box with her to St. Crux, as one of the many little
      things which in her character of a servant it was desirable to possess;
      and she now opened the box and applied herself resolutely to work. Her
      want of dexterity with her needle assisted the object she had in view; it
      obliged her to pay the closest attention to her employment; it forced her
      thoughts away from the two subjects of all others which she now dreaded
      most&mdash;herself and the future.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next day, as he had arranged, the admiral returned. His visit to
      London had not improved his spirits. The shadow of some unconquerable
      doubt still clouded his face; his restless tongue was strangely quiet,
      while Magdalen waited on him at his solitary meal. That night the snoring
      resounded once more on the inner side of the screen, and old Mazey was
      back again in the comfortless truckle-bed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Three more days passed&mdash;April came. On the second of the month
      &mdash;returning as unexpectedly as he had departed a week before&mdash;Mr.
      George Bartram re-appeared at St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      He came back early in the afternoon, and had an interview with his uncle
      in the library. The interview over, he left the house again, and was
      driven to the railway by the groom in time to catch the last train to
      London that night. The groom noticed, on the road, that &ldquo;Mr. George seemed
      to be rather pleased than otherwise at leaving St. Crux.&rdquo; He also
      remarked, on his return, that the admiral swore at him for overdriving the
      horses&mdash;an indication of ill-temper, on the part of his master, which
      he described as being entirely without precedent in all his former
      experience. Magdalen, in her department of service, had suffered in like
      manner under the old man&rsquo;s irritable humor: he had been dissatisfied with
      everything she did in the dining-room; and he had found fault with all the
      dishes, one after another, from the mutton-broth to the toasted cheese.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next two days passed as usual. On the third day an event happened. In
      appearance, it was nothing more important than a ring at the drawing-room
      bell. In reality, it was the forerunner of approaching catastrophe&mdash;the
      formidable herald of the end.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was Magdalen&rsquo;s business to answer the bell. On reaching the
      drawing-room door, she knocked as usual. There was no reply. After again
      knocking, and again receiving no answer, she ventured into the room, and
      was instantly met by a current of cold air flowing full on her face. The
      heavy sliding door in the opposite wall was pushed back, and the Arctic
      atmosphere of Freeze-your-Bones was pouring unhindered into the empty
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      She waited near the door, doubtful what to do next; it was certainly the
      drawing-room bell that had rung, and no other. She waited, looking through
      the open doorway opposite, down the wilderness of the dismantled Hall.
    </p>
    <p>
      A little consideration satisfied her that it would be best to go
      downstairs again, and wait there for a second summons from the bell. On
      turning to leave the room, she happened to look back once more, and
      exactly at that moment she saw the door open at the opposite extremity of
      the Banqueting-Hall&mdash;the door leading into the first of the
      apartments in the east wing. A tall man came out, wearing his great coat
      and his hat, and rapidly approached the drawing-room. His gait betrayed
      him, while he was still too far off for his features to be seen. Before he
      was quite half-way across the Hall, Magdalen had recognized&mdash;the
      admiral.
    </p>
    <p>
      He looked, not irritated only, but surprised as well, at finding his
      parlor-maid waiting for him in the drawing-room, and inquired, sharply and
      suspiciously, what she wanted there? Magdalen replied that she had come
      there to answer the bell. His face cleared a little when he heard the
      explanation. &ldquo;Yes, yes; to be sure,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I did ring, and then I
      forgot it.&rdquo; He pulled the sliding door back into its place as he spoke.
      &ldquo;Coals,&rdquo; he resumed, impatiently, pointing to the empty scuttle. &ldquo;I rang
      for coals.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen went back to the kitchen regions. After communicating the
      admiral&rsquo;s order to the servant whose special duty it was to attend to the
      fires, she returned to the pantry, and, gently closing the door, sat down
      alone to think.
    </p>
    <p>
      It had been her impression in the drawing-room&mdash;and it was her
      impression still&mdash;that she had accidentally surprised Admiral Bartram
      on a visit to the east rooms, which, for some urgent reason of his own, he
      wished to keep a secret. Haunted day and night by the one dominant idea
      that now possessed her, she leaped all logical difficulties at a bound,
      and at once associated the suspicion of a secret proceeding on the
      admiral&rsquo;s part with the kindred suspicion which pointed to him as the
      depositary of the Secret Trust. Up to this time it had been her settled
      belief that he kept all his important documents in one or other of the
      suite of rooms which he happened to be occupying for the time being. Why&mdash;she
      now asked herself, with a sudden distrust of the conclusion which had
      hitherto satisfied her mind&mdash;why might he not lock some of them up in
      the other rooms as well? The remembrance of the keys still concealed in
      their hiding-place in her room sharpened her sense of the reasonableness
      of this new view. With one unimportant exception, those keys had all
      failed when she tried them in the rooms on the north side of the house.
      Might they not succeed with the cabinets and cupboards in the east rooms,
      on which she had never tried them, or thought of trying them, yet? If
      there was a chance, however small, of turning them to better account than
      she had turned them thus far, it was a chance to be tried. If there was a
      possibility, however remote, that the Trust might be hidden in any one of
      the locked repositories in the east wing, it was a possibility to be put
      to the test. When? Her own experience answered the question. At the time
      when no prying eyes were open, and no accidents were to be feared&mdash;when
      the house was quiet&mdash;in the dead of night.
    </p>
    <p>
      She knew enough of her changed self to dread the enervating influence of
      delay. She determined to run the risk headlong that night.
    </p>
    <p>
      More blunders escaped her when dinner-time came; the admiral&rsquo;s criticisms
      on her waiting at table were sharper than ever. His hardest words
      inflicted no pain on her; she scarcely heard him&mdash;her mind was dull
      to every sense but the sense of the coming trial. The evening which had
      passed slowly to her on the night of her first experiment with the keys
      passed quickly now. When bed-time came, bed-time took her by surprise.
    </p>
    <p>
      She waited longer on this occasion than she had waited before. The admiral
      was at home; he might alter his mind and go downstairs again, after he had
      gone up to his room; he might have forgotten something in the library and
      might return to fetch it. Midnight struck from the clock in the servants&rsquo;
      hall before she ventured out of her room, with the keys again in her
      pocket, with the candle again in her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the first of the stairs on which she set her foot to descend, an
      all-mastering hesitation, an unintelligible shrinking from some peril
      unknown, seized her on a sudden. She waited, and reasoned with herself.
      She had recoiled from no sacrifices, she had yielded to no fears, in
      carrying out the stratagem by which she had gained admission to St. Crux;
      and now, when the long array of difficulties at the outset had been
      patiently conquered, now, when by sheer force of resolution the
      starting-point was gained, she hesitated to advance. &ldquo;I shrank from
      nothing to get here,&rdquo; she said to herself. &ldquo;What madness possesses me that
      I shrink now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Every pulse in her quickened at the thought, with an animating shame that
      nerved her to go on. She descended the stairs, from the third floor to the
      second, from the second to the first, without trusting herself to pause
      again within easy reach of her own room. In another minute, she had
      reached the end of the corridor, had crossed the vestibule, and had
      entered the drawing-room. It was only when her grasp was on the heavy
      brass handle of the sliding door&mdash;it was only at the moment before
      she pushed the door back&mdash;that she waited to take breath. The
      Banqueting-Hall was close on the other side of the wooden partition
      against which she stood; her excited imagination felt the death-like chill
      of it flowing over her already.
    </p>
    <p>
      She pushed back the sliding door a few inches&mdash;and stopped in
      momentary alarm. When the admiral had closed it in her presence that day,
      she had heard no noise. When old Mazey had opened it to show her the rooms
      in the east wing, she had heard no noise. Now, in the night silence, she
      noticed for the first time that the door made a sound&mdash;a dull,
      rushing sound, like the wind.
    </p>
    <p>
      She roused herself, and pushed it further back&mdash;pushed it halfway
      into the hollow chamber in the wall constructed to receive it. She
      advanced boldly into the gap, and met the night view of the
      Banqueting-Hall face to face.
    </p>
    <p>
      The moon was rounding the southern side of the house. Her paling beams
      streamed through the nearer windows, and lay in long strips of slanting
      light on the marble pavement of the Hall. The black shadows of the
      pediments between each window, alternating with the strips of light,
      heightened the wan glare of the moonshine on the floor. Toward its lower
      end, the Hall melted mysteriously into darkness. The ceiling was lost to
      view; the yawning fire-place, the overhanging mantel-piece, the long row
      of battle pictures above, were all swallowed up in night. But one visible
      object was discernible, besides the gleaming windows and the moon-striped
      floor. Midway in the last and furthest of the strips of light, the tripod
      rose erect on its gaunt black legs, like a monster called to life by the
      moon&mdash;a monster rising through the light, and melting invisibly into
      the upper shadows of the Hall. Far and near, all sound lay dead, drowned
      in the stagnant cold. The soothing hush of night was awful here. The deep
      abysses of darkness hid abysses of silence more immeasurable still.
    </p>
    <p>
      She stood motionless in the door-way, with straining eyes, with straining
      ears. She looked for some moving thing, she listened for some rising
      sound, and looked and listened in vain. A quick ceaseless shivering ran
      through her from head to foot. The shivering of fear, or the shivering of
      cold? The bare doubt roused her resolute will. &ldquo;Now,&rdquo; she thought,
      advancing a step through the door-way, &ldquo;or never! I&rsquo;ll count the strips of
      moonlight three times over, and cross the Hall.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;One, two, three, four, five. One, two, three, four, five. One, two,
      three, four, five.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As the final number passed her lips at the third time of counting, she
      crossed the Hall. Looking for nothing, listening for nothing, one hand
      holding the candle, the other mechanically grasping the folds of her
      dress, she sped, ghost-like, down the length of the ghostly place. She
      reached the door of the first of the eastern rooms, opened it, and ran in.
      The sudden relief of attaining a refuge, the sudden entrance into a new
      atmosphere, overpowered her for the moment. She had just time to put the
      candle safely on a table before she dropped giddy and breathless into the
      nearest chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      Little by little she felt the rest quieting her. In a few minutes she
      became conscious of the triumph of having won her way to the east rooms.
      In a few minutes she was strong enough to rise from the chair, to take the
      keys from her pocket, and to look round her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first objects of furniture in the room which attracted her attention
      were an old bureau of carved oak, and a heavy buhl table with a cabinet
      attached. She tried the bureau first; it looked the likeliest receptacle
      for papers of the two. Three of the keys proved to be of a size to enter
      the lock, but none of them would turn it. The bureau was unassailable. She
      left it, and paused to trim the wick of the candle before she tried the
      buhl cabinet next.
    </p>
    <p>
      At the moment when she raised her hand to the candle, she heard the
      stillness of the Banqueting-Hall shudder with the terror of a sound&mdash;a
      sound faint and momentary, like the distant rushing of the wind.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sliding door in the drawing-room had moved.
    </p>
    <p>
      Which way had it moved? Had an unknown hand pushed it back in its socket
      further than she had pushed it, or pulled it to again, and closed it? The
      horror of being shut out all night, by some undiscoverable agency, from
      the life of the house, was stronger in her than the horror of looking
      across the Banqueting-Hall. She made desperately for the door of the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      It had fallen to silently after her when she had come in, but it was not
      closed. She pulled it open, and looked.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sight that met her eyes rooted her, panic-stricken, to the spot.
    </p>
    <p>
      Close to the first of the row of windows, counting from the drawing-room,
      and full in the gleam of it, she saw a solitary figure. It stood
      motionless, rising out of the furthest strip of moonlight on the floor. As
      she looked, it suddenly disappeared. In another instant she saw it again,
      in the second strip of moonlight&mdash;lost it again&mdash;saw it in the
      third strip&mdash;lost it once more&mdash;and saw it in the fourth. Moment
      by moment it advanced, now mysteriously lost in the shadow, now suddenly
      visible again in the light, until it reached the fifth and nearest strip
      of moonlight. There it paused, and strayed aside slowly to the middle of
      the Hall. It stopped at the tripod, and stood, shivering audibly in the
      silence, with its hands raised over the dead ashes, in the action of
      warming them at a fire. It turned back again, moving down the path of the
      moonlight, stopped at the fifth window, turned once more, and came on
      softly through the shadow straight to the place where Magdalen stood.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her voice was dumb, her will was helpless. Every sense in her but the
      seeing sense was paralyzed. The seeing sense&mdash;held fast in the
      fetters of its own terror&mdash;looked unchangeably straightforward, as it
      had looked from the first. There she stood in the door-way, full in the
      path of the figure advancing on her through the shadow, nearer and nearer,
      step by step.
    </p>
    <p>
      It came close.
    </p>
    <p>
      The bonds of horror that held her burst asunder when it was within
      arm&rsquo;s-length. She started back. The light of the candle on the table fell
      full on its face, and showed her&mdash;Admiral Bartram.
    </p>
    <p>
      A long, gray dressing-gown was wrapped round him. His head was uncovered;
      his feet were bare. In his left hand he carried his little basket of keys.
      He passed Magdalen slowly, his lips whispering without intermission, his
      open eyes staring straight before him with the glassy stare of death. His
      eyes revealed to her the terrifying truth. He was walking in his sleep.
    </p>
    <p>
      The terror of seeing him as she saw him now was not the terror she had
      felt when her eyes first lighted on him&mdash;an apparition in the
      moon-light, a specter in the ghostly Hall. This time she could struggle
      against the shock; she could feel the depth of her own fear.
    </p>
    <p>
      He passed her, and stopped in the middle of the room. Magdalen ventured
      near enough to him to be within reach of his voice as he muttered to
      himself. She ventured nearer still, and heard the name of her dead husband
      fall distinctly from the sleep-walker&rsquo;s lips.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Noel!&rdquo; he said, in the low monotonous tones of a dreamer talking in his
      sleep, &ldquo;my good fellow, Noel, take it back again! It worries me day and
      night. I don&rsquo;t know where it&rsquo;s safe; I don&rsquo;t know where to put it. Take it
      back, Noel&mdash;take it back!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      As those words escaped him, he walked to the buhl cabinet. He sat down in
      the chair placed before it, and searched in the basket among his keys.
      Magdalen softly followed him, and stood behind his chair, waiting with the
      candle in her hand. He found the key, and unlocked the cabinet. Without an
      instant&rsquo;s hesitation, he drew out a drawer, the second of a row. The one
      thing in the drawer was a folded letter. He removed it, and put it down
      before him on the table. &ldquo;Take it back, Noel!&rdquo; he repeated, mechanically;
      &ldquo;take it back!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen looked over his shoulder and read these lines, traced in her
      husband&rsquo;s handwriting, at the top of the letter: <i>To be kept in your own
      possession, and to be opened by yourself only on the day of my decease.
      Noel Vanstone.</i> She saw the words plainly, with the admiral&rsquo;s name and
      the admiral&rsquo;s address written under them.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Trust within reach of her hand! The Trust traced to its hiding-place
      at last!
    </p>
    <p>
      She took one step forward, to steal round his chair and to snatch the
      letter from the table. At the instant when she moved, he took it up once
      more, locked the cabinet, and, rising, turned and faced her.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the impulse of the moment, she stretched out her hand toward the hand
      in which he held the letter. The yellow candle-light fell full on him. The
      awful death-in-life of his face&mdash;the mystery of the sleeping body,
      moving in unconscious obedience to the dreaming mind&mdash;daunted her.
      Her hand trembled, and dropped again at her side.
    </p>
    <p>
      He put the key of the cabinet back in the basket, and crossed the room to
      the bureau, with the basket in one hand and the letter in the other.
      Magdalen set the candle on the table again, and watched him. As he had
      opened the cabinet, so he now opened the bureau. Once more Magdalen
      stretched out her hand, and once more she recoiled before the mystery and
      the terror of his sleep. He put the letter in a drawer at the back of the
      bureau, and closed the heavy oaken lid again. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Safer
      there, as you say, Noel&mdash;safer there.&rdquo; So he spoke. So, time after
      time, the words that betrayed him revealed the dead man living and
      speaking again in the dream.
    </p>
    <p>
      Had he locked the bureau? Magdalen had not heard the lock turn. As he
      slowly moved away, walking back once more toward the middle of the room,
      she tried the lid. It was locked. That discovery made, she looked to see
      what he was doing next. He was leaving the room again, with the basket of
      keys in his hand. When her first glance overtook him, he was crossing the
      threshold of the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Some inscrutable fascination possessed her, some mysterious attraction
      drew her after him, in spite of herself. She took up the candle and
      followed him mechanically, as if she too were walking in her sleep. One
      behind the other, in slow and noiseless progress, they crossed the
      Banqueting-Hall. One behind the other, they passed through the
      drawing-room, and along the corridor, and up the stairs. She followed him
      to his own door. He went in, and shut it behind him softly. She stopped,
      and looked toward the truckle-bed. It was pushed aside at the foot, some
      little distance away from the bedroom door. Who had moved it? She held the
      candle close and looked toward the pillow, with a sudden curiosity and a
      sudden doubt.
    </p>
    <p>
      The truckle-bed was empty.
    </p>
    <p>
      The discovery startled her for the moment, and for the moment only. Plain
      as the inferences were to be drawn from it, she never drew them. Her mind,
      slowly recovering the exercise of its faculties, was still under the
      influence of the earlier and the deeper impressions produced on it. Her
      mind followed the admiral into his room, as her body had followed him
      across the Banqueting-Hall.
    </p>
    <p>
      Had he lain down again in his bed? Was he still asleep? She listened at
      the door. Not a sound was audible in the room. She tried the door, and,
      finding it not locked, softly opened it a few inches and listened again.
      The rise and fall of his low, regular breathing instantly caught her ear.
      He was still asleep.
    </p>
    <p>
      She went into the room, and, shading the candle-light with her hand,
      approached the bedside to look at him. The dream was past; the old man&rsquo;s
      sleep was deep and peaceful; his lips were still; his quiet hand was laid
      over the coverlet in motionless repose. He lay with his face turned toward
      the right-hand side of the bed. A little table stood there within reach of
      his hand. Four objects were placed on it; his candle, his matches, his
      customary night drink of lemonade, and his basket of keys.
    </p>
    <p>
      The idea of possessing herself of his keys that night (if an opportunity
      offered when the basket was not in his hand) had first crossed her mind
      when she saw him go into his room. She had lost it again for the moment,
      in the surprise of discovering the empty truckle-bed. She now recovered it
      the instant the table attracted her attention. It was useless to waste
      time in trying to choose the one key wanted from the rest&mdash;the one
      key was not well enough known to her to be readily identified. She took
      all the keys from the table, in the basket as they lay, and noiselessly
      closed the door behind her on leaving the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      The truckle-bed, as she passed it, obtruded itself again on her attention,
      and forced her to think of it. After a moment&rsquo;s consideration, she moved
      the foot of the bed back to its customary position across the door.
      Whether he was in the house or out of it, the veteran might return to his
      deserted post at any moment. If he saw the bed moved from its usual place,
      he might suspect something wrong, he might rouse his master, and the loss
      of the keys might be discovered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Nothing happened as she descended the stairs, nothing happened as she
      passed along the corridor; the house was as silent and as solitary as
      ever. She crossed the Banqueting-Hall this time without hesitation; the
      events of the night had hardened her mind against all imaginary terrors.
      &ldquo;Now, I have got it!&rdquo; she whispered to herself, in an irrepressible
      outburst of exaltation, as she entered the first of the east rooms and put
      her candle on the top of the old bureau.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even yet there was a trial in store for her patience. Some minutes elapsed&mdash;minutes
      that seemed hours&mdash;before she found the right key and raised the lid
      of the bureau. At last she drew out the inner drawer! At last she had the
      letter in her hand!
    </p>
    <p>
      It had been sealed, but the seal was broken. She opened it on the spot, to
      make sure that she had actually possessed herself of the Trust before
      leaving the room. The end of the letter was the first part of it she
      turned to. It came to its conclusion high on the third page, and it was
      signed by Noel Vanstone. Below the name these lines were added in the
      admiral&rsquo;s handwriting:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This letter was received by me at the same time with the will of my
      friend, Noel Vanstone. In the event of my death, without leaving any other
      directions respecting it, I beg my nephew and my executors to understand
      that I consider the requests made in this document as absolutely binding
      on me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;ARTHUR EVERARD BARTRAM.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She left those lines unread. She just noticed that they were not in Noel
      Vanstone&rsquo;s handwriting; and, passing over them instantly, as immaterial to
      the object in view, turned the leaves of the letter, and transferred her
      attention to the opening sentences on the first page. She read these
      words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR ADMIRAL BARTRAM&mdash;When you open my Will (in which you are named
      my sole executor), you will find that I have bequeathed the whole residue
      of my estate&mdash;after payment of one legacy of five thousand pounds&mdash;to
      yourself. It is the purpose of my letter to tell you privately what the
      object is for which I have left you the fortune which is now placed in
      your hands.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I beg you to consider this large legacy as intended&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had proceeded thus far with breathless curiosity and interest, when
      her attention suddenly failed her. Something&mdash;she was too deeply
      absorbed to know what&mdash;had got between her and the letter. Was it a
      sound in the Banqueting-Hall again? She looked over her shoulder at the
      door behind her, and listened. Nothing was to be heard, nothing was to be
      seen. She returned to the letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      The writing was cramped and close. In her impatient curiosity to read
      more, she failed to find the lost place again. Her eyes, attracted by a
      blot, lighted on a sentence lower in the page than the sentence at which
      she had left off. The first three words she saw riveted her attention anew&mdash;they
      were the first words she had met with in the letter which directly
      referred to George Bartram. In the sudden excitement of that discovery,
      she read the rest of the sentence eagerly, before she made any second
      attempt to return to the lost place:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If your nephew fails to comply with these conditions&mdash;that is to
      say, if, being either a bachelor or a widower at the time of my decease,
      he fails to marry in all respects as I have here instructed him to marry,
      within six calendar months from that time&mdash;it is my desire that he
      shall not receive&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She had read to that point, to that last word and no further, when a hand
      passed suddenly from behind her between the letter and her eye, and
      gripped her fast by the wrist in an instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      She turned with a shriek of terror, and found herself face to face with
      old Mazey.
    </p>
    <p>
      The veteran&rsquo;s eyes were bloodshot; his hand was heavy; his list slippers
      were twisted crookedly on his feet; and his body swayed to and fro on his
      widely parted legs. If he had tested his condition that night by the
      unfailing criterion of the model ship, he must have inevitably pronounced
      sentence on himself in the usual form: &ldquo;Drunk again, Mazey; drunk again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You young Jezebel!&rdquo; said the old sailor, with a leer on one side of his
      face, and a frown on the other. &ldquo;The next time you take to night-walking
      in the neighborhood of Freeze-your-Bones, use those sharp eyes of yours
      first, and make sure there&rsquo;s nobody else night walking in the garden
      outside. Drop it, Jezebel! drop it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Keeping fast hold of Magdalen&rsquo;s arm with one hand, he took the letter from
      her with the other, put it back into the open drawer, and locked the
      bureau. She never struggled with him, she never spoke. Her energy was
      gone; her powers of resistance were crushed. The terrors of that horrible
      night, following one close on the other in reiterated shocks, had struck
      her down at last. She yielded as submissively, she trembled as helplessly,
      as the weakest woman living.
    </p>
    <p>
      Old Mazey dropped her arm, and pointed with drunken solemnity to a chair
      in an inner corner of the room. She sat down, still without uttering a
      word. The veteran (breathing very hard over it) steadied himself on both
      elbows against the slanting top of the bureau, and from that commanding
      position addressed Magdalen once more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Come and be locked up!&rdquo; said old Mazey, wagging his venerable head with
      judicial severity. &ldquo;There&rsquo;ll be a court of inquiry to-morrow morning, and
      I&rsquo;m witness&mdash;worse luck!&mdash;I&rsquo;m witness. You young jade, you&rsquo;ve
      committed burglary&mdash;that&rsquo;s what you&rsquo;ve done. His honor the admiral&rsquo;s
      keys stolen; his honor the admiral&rsquo;s desk ransacked; and his honor the
      admiral&rsquo;s private letters broke open. Burglary! Burglary! Come and be
      locked up!&rdquo; He slowly recovered an upright position, with the assistance
      of his hands, backed by the solid resisting power of the bureau; and
      lapsed into lachrymose soliloquy. &ldquo;Who&rsquo;d have thought it?&rdquo; said old Mazey,
      paternally watering at the eyes. &ldquo;Take the outside of her, and she&rsquo;s as
      straight as a poplar; take the inside of her, and she&rsquo;s as crooked as Sin.
      Such a fine-grown girl, too. What a pity! what a pity!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t hurt me!&rdquo; said Magdalen, faintly, as old Mazey staggered up to the
      chair, and took her by the wrist again. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m frightened, Mr. Mazey&mdash;I&rsquo;m
      dreadfully frightened.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hurt you?&rdquo; repeated the veteran. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m a deal too fond of you&mdash;and
      more shame for me at my age!&mdash;to hurt you. If I let go of your wrist,
      will you walk straight before me, where I can see you all the way? Will
      you be a good girl, and walk straight up to your own door?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen gave the promise required of her&mdash;gave it with an eager
      longing to reach the refuge of her room. She rose, and tried to take the
      candle from the bureau, but old Mazey&rsquo;s cunning hand was too quick for
      her. &ldquo;Let the candle be,&rdquo; said the veteran, winking in momentary
      forgetfulness of his responsible position. &ldquo;You&rsquo;re a trifle quicker on
      your legs than I am, my dear, and you might leave me in the lurch, if I
      don&rsquo;t carry the light.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      They returned to the inhabited side of the house. Staggering after
      Magdalen, with the basket of keys in one hand and the candle in the other,
      old Mazey sorrowfully compared her figure with the straightness of the
      poplar, and her disposition with the crookedness of Sin, all the way
      across &ldquo;Freeze-your-Bones,&rdquo; and all the way upstairs to her own door.
      Arrived at that destination, he peremptorily refused to give her the
      candle until he had first seen her safely inside the room. The conditions
      being complied with, he resigned the light with one hand, and made a dash
      with the other at the key, drew it from the inside of the lock, and
      instantly closed the door. Magdalen heard him outside chuckling over his
      own dexterity, and fitting the key into the lock again with infinite
      difficulty. At last he secured the door, with a deep grunt of relief.
      &ldquo;There she is safe!&rdquo; Magdalen heard him say, in regretful soliloquy. &ldquo;As
      fine a girl as ever I sat eyes on. What a pity! what a pity!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The last sounds of his voice died out in the distance; and she was left
      alone in her room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Holding fast by the banister, old Mazey made his way down to the corridor
      on the second floor, in which a night light was always burning. He
      advanced to the truckle-bed, and, steadying himself against the opposite
      wall, looked at it attentively. Prolonged contemplation of his own
      resting-place for the night apparently failed to satisfy him. He shook his
      head ominously, and, taking from the side-pocket of his great-coat a pair
      of old patched slippers, surveyed them with an aspect of illimitable
      doubt. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m all abroad to-night,&rdquo; he mumbled to himself. &ldquo;Troubled in my
      mind&mdash;that&rsquo;s what it is&mdash;troubled in my mind.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The old patched slippers and the veteran&rsquo;s existing perplexities happened
      to be intimately associated one with the other, in the relation of cause
      and effect. The slippers belonged to the admiral, who had taken one of his
      unreasonable fancies to this particular pair, and who still persisted in
      wearing them long after they were unfit for his service. Early that
      afternoon old Mazey had taken the slippers to the village cobbler to get
      them repaired on the spot, before his master called for them the next
      morning; he sat superintending the progress and completion of the work
      until evening came, when he and the cobbler betook themselves to the
      village inn to drink each other&rsquo;s healths at parting. They had prolonged
      this social ceremony till far into the night, and they had parted, as a
      necessary consequence, in a finished and perfect state of intoxication on
      either side.
    </p>
    <p>
      If the drinking-bout had led to no other result than those night
      wanderings in the grounds of St. Crux, which had shown old Mazey the light
      in the east windows, his memory would unquestionably have presented it to
      him the next morning in the aspect of one of the praiseworthy achievements
      of his life. But another consequence had sprung from it, which the old
      sailor now saw dimly, through the interposing bewilderment left in his
      brain by the drink. He had committed a breach of discipline, and a breach
      of trust. In plainer words, he had deserted his post.
    </p>
    <p>
      The one safeguard against Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s constitutional tendency to
      somnambulism was the watch and ward which his faithful old servant kept
      outside his door. No entreaties had ever prevailed on him to submit to the
      usual precaution taken in such cases. He peremptorily declined to be
      locked into his room; he even ignored his own liability, whenever a dream
      disturbed him, to walk in his sleep. Over and over again, old Mazey had
      been roused by the admiral&rsquo;s attempts to push past the truckle-bed, or to
      step over it, in his sleep; and over and over again, when the veteran had
      reported the fact the next morning, his master had declined to believe
      him. As the old sailor now stood, staring in vacant inquiry at the
      bed-chamber door, these incidents of the past rose confusedly on his
      memory, and forced on him the serious question whether the admiral had
      left his room during the earlier hours of the night. If by any mischance
      the sleep-walking fit had seized him, the slippers in old Mazey&rsquo;s hand
      pointed straight to the conclusion that followed&mdash;his master must
      have passed barefoot in the cold night over the stone stairs and passages
      of St. Crux. &ldquo;Lord send he&rsquo;s been quiet!&rdquo; muttered old Mazey, daunted,
      bold as he was and drunk as he was, by the bare contemplation of that
      prospect. &ldquo;If his honor&rsquo;s been walking to-night, it will be the death of
      him!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He roused himself for the moment by main force&mdash;strong in his
      dog-like fidelity to the admiral, though strong in nothing else&mdash;and
      fought off the stupor of the drink. He looked at the bed with steadier
      eyes and a clearer mind. Magdalen&rsquo;s precaution in returning it to its
      customary position presented it to him necessarily in the aspect of a bed
      which had never been moved from its place. He next examined the
      counterpane carefully. Not the faintest vestige appeared of the
      indentation which must have been left by footsteps passing over it. There
      was the plain evidence before him&mdash;the evidence recognizable at last
      by his own bewildered eyes&mdash;that the admiral had never moved from his
      room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll take the Pledge to-morrow!&rdquo; mumbled old Mazey, in an outburst of
      grateful relief. The next moment the fumes of the liquor floated back
      insidiously over his brain; and the veteran, returning to his customary
      remedy, paced the passage in zigzag as usual, and kept watch on the deck
      of an imaginary ship.
    </p>
    <p>
      Soon after sunrise, Magdalen suddenly heard the grating of the key from
      outside in the lock of the door. The door opened, and old Mazey
      re-appeared on the threshold. The first fever of his intoxication had
      cooled, with time, into a mild, penitential glow. He breathed harder than
      ever, in a succession of low growls, and wagged his venerable head at his
      own delinquencies without intermission.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How are you now, you young land-shark in petticoats?&rdquo; inquired the old
      sailor. &ldquo;Has your conscience been quiet enough to let you go to sleep?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have not slept,&rdquo; said Magdalen, drawing back from him in doubt of what
      he might do next. &ldquo;I have no remembrance of what happened after you locked
      the door&mdash;I think I must have fainted. Don&rsquo;t frighten me again, Mr.
      Mazey! I feel miserably weak and ill. What do you want?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I want to say something serious,&rdquo; replied old Mazey, with impenetrable
      solemnity. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s been on my mind to come here and make a clean breast of
      it, for the last hour or more. Mark my words, young woman. I&rsquo;m going to
      disgrace myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen drew further and further back, and looked at him in rising alarm.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I know my duty to his honor the admiral,&rdquo; proceeded old Mazey, waving his
      hand drearily in the direction of his master&rsquo;s door. &ldquo;But, try as hard as
      I may, I can&rsquo;t find it in my heart, you young jade, to be witness against
      you. I liked the make of you (especially about the waist) when you first
      came into the house, and I can&rsquo;t help liking the make of you still&mdash;though
      you <i>have</i> committed burglary, and though you <i>are</i> as crooked
      as Sin. I&rsquo;ve cast the eyes of indulgence on fine-grown girls all my life,
      and it&rsquo;s too late in the day to cast the eyes of severity on &lsquo;em now. I&rsquo;m
      seventy-seven, or seventy-eight, I don&rsquo;t rightly know which. I&rsquo;m a
      battered old hulk, with my seams opening, and my pumps choked, and the
      waters of Death powering in on me as fast as they can. I&rsquo;m as miserable a
      sinner as you&rsquo;ll meet with anywhere in these parts&mdash;Thomas Nagle, the
      cobbler, only excepted; and he&rsquo;s worse than I am, for he&rsquo;s the younger of
      the two, and he ought to know better. But the long and short or it is, I
      shall go down to my grave with an eye of indulgence for a fine-grown girl.
      More shame for me, you young Jezebel&mdash;more shame for me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The veteran&rsquo;s unmanageable eyes began to leer again in spite of him, as he
      concluded his harangue in these terms: the last reserves of austerity left
      in his face entrenched themselves dismally round the corners of his mouth.
      Magdalen approached him again, and tried to speak. He solemnly motioned
      her back with another dreary wave of his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No carneying!&rdquo; said old Mazey; &ldquo;I&rsquo;m bad enough already, without that.
      It&rsquo;s my duty to make my report to his honor the admiral, and I <i>will</i>
      make it. But if you like to give the house the slip before the burglary&rsquo;s
      reported, and the court of inquiry begins, I&rsquo;ll disgrace myself by letting
      you go. It&rsquo;s market morning at Ossory, and Dawkes will be driving the
      light cart over in a quarter of an hour&rsquo;s time. Dawkes will take you if I
      ask him. I know my duty&mdash;my duty is to turn the key on you, and see
      Dawkes damned first. But I can&rsquo;t find it in my heart to be hard on a fine
      girl like you. It&rsquo;s bred in the bone, and it wunt come out of the flesh.
      More shame for me, I tell you again&mdash;more shame for me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The proposal thus strangely and suddenly presented to her took Magdalen
      completely by surprise. She had been far too seriously shaken by the
      events of the night to be capable of deciding on any subject at a moment&rsquo;s
      notice. &ldquo;You are very good to me, Mr. Mazey,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;May I have a
      minute by myself to think?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, you may,&rdquo; replied the veteran, facing about forthwith and leaving
      the room. &ldquo;They&rsquo;re all alike,&rdquo; proceeded old Mazey, with his head still
      running on the sex. &ldquo;Whatever you offer &lsquo;em, they always want something
      more. Tall and short, native and foreign, sweethearts and wives, they&rsquo;re
      all alike!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Left by herself, Magdalen reached her decision with far less difficulty
      than she had anticipated.
    </p>
    <p>
      If she remained in the house, there were only two courses before her&mdash;to
      charge old Mazey with speaking under the influence of a drunken delusion,
      or to submit to circumstances. Though she owed to the old sailor her
      defeat in the very hour of success, his consideration for her at that
      moment forbade the idea of defending herself at his expense&mdash;even
      supposing, what was in the last degree improbable, that the defense would
      be credited. In the second of the two cases (the case of submission to
      circumstances), but one result could be expected&mdash;instant dismissal,
      and perhaps discovery as well. What object was to be gained by braving
      that degradation&mdash;by leaving the house publicly disgraced in the eyes
      of the servants who had hated and distrusted her from the first? The
      accident which had literally snatched the Trust from her possession when
      she had it in her hand was irreparable. The one apparent compensation
      under the disaster&mdash;in other words, the discovery that the Trust
      actually existed, and that George Bartram&rsquo;s marriage within a given time
      was one of the objects contained in it&mdash;was a compensation which
      could only be estimated at its true value by placing it under the light of
      Mr. Loscombe&rsquo;s experience. Every motive of which she was conscious was a
      motive which urged her to leave the house secretly while the chance was at
      her disposal. She looked out into the passage, and called softly to old
      Mazey to come back.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I accept your offer thankfully, Mr. Mazey,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know
      what hard measure you dealt out to me when you took that letter from my
      hand. But you did your duty, and I can be grateful to you for sparing me
      this morning, hard as you were upon me last night. I am not such a bad
      girl as you think me&mdash;I am not, indeed.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Old Mazey dismissed the subject with another dreary wave of his hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let it be,&rdquo; said the veteran; &ldquo;let it be! It makes no difference, my
      girl, to such an old rascal as I am. If you were fifty times worse than
      you are, I should let you go all the same. Put on your bonnet and shawl,
      and come along. I&rsquo;m a disgrace to myself and a warning to others&mdash;that&rsquo;s
      what I am. No luggage, mind! Leave all your rattle-traps behind you: to be
      overhauled, if necessary, at his honor the admiral&rsquo;s discretion. I can be
      hard enough on your boxes, you young Jezebel, if I can&rsquo;t be hard on you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With these words, old Mazey led the way out of the room. &ldquo;The less I see
      of her the better&mdash;especially about the waist,&rdquo; he said to himself,
      as he hobbled downstairs with the help of the banisters.
    </p>
    <p>
      The cart was standing in the back yard when they reached the lower regions
      of the house, and Dawkes (otherwise the farm-bailiff&rsquo;s man) was fastening
      the last buckle of the horse&rsquo;s harness. The hoar-frost of the morning was
      still white in the shade. The sparkling points of it glistened brightly on
      the shaggy coats of Brutus and Cassius, as they idled about the yard,
      waiting, with steaming mouths and slowly wagging tails, to see the cart
      drive off. Old Mazey went out alone and used his influence with Dawkes,
      who, staring in stolid amazement, put a leather cushion on the cart-seat
      for his fellow-traveler. Shivering in the sharp morning air, Magdalen
      waited, while the preliminaries of departure were in progress, conscious
      of nothing but a giddy bewilderment of thought, and a helpless suspension
      of feeling. The events of the night confused themselves hideously with the
      trivial circumstances passing before her eyes in the courtyard. She
      started with the sudden terror of the night when old Mazey re-appeared to
      summon her out to the cart. She trembled with the helpless confusion of
      the night when the veteran cast the eyes of indulgence on her for the last
      time, and gave her a kiss on the cheek at parting. The next minute she
      felt him help her into the cart, and pat her on the back. The next, she
      heard him tell her in a confidential whisper that, sitting or standing,
      she was as straight as a poplar either way. Then there was a pause, in
      which nothing was said, and nothing done; and then the driver took the
      reins in hand and mounted to his place.
    </p>
    <p>
      She roused herself at the parting moment and looked back. The last sight
      she saw at St. Crux was old Mazey wagging his head in the courtyard, with
      his fellow-profligates, the dogs, keeping time to him with their tails.
      The last words she heard were the words in which the veteran paid his
      farewell tribute to her charms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Burglary or no burglary,&rdquo; said old Mazey, &ldquo;she&rsquo;s a fine-grown girl, if
      ever there was a fine one yet. What a pity! what a pity!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      THE END OF THE SEVENTH SCENE. 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      BETWEEN THE SCENES
    </h2>
    <h3>
      PROGRESS OF THE STORY THROUGH THE POST
    </h3>
    <p>
      I.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From George Bartram to Admiral Bartram.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;London, April 3d, 1848.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR UNCLE&mdash;One hasty line, to inform you of a temporary
      obstacle, which we neither of us anticipated when we took leave of each
      other at St. Crux. While I was wasting the last days of the week at the
      Grange, the Tyrrels must have been making their arrangements for leaving
      London. I have just come from Portland Place. The house is shut up, and
      the family (Miss Vanstone, of course, included) left England yesterday, to
      pass the season in Paris.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Pray don&rsquo;t let yourself be annoyed by this little check at starting. It
      is of no serious importance whatever. I have got the address at which the
      Tyrrels are living, and I mean to cross the Channel after them by the mail
      to-night. I shall find my opportunity in Paris just as soon as I could
      have found it in London. The grass shall not grow under my feet, I promise
      you. For once in my life, I will take Time as fiercely by the forelock as
      if I was the most impetuous man in England; and, rely on it, the moment I
      know the result, you shall know the result, too. Affectionately yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;GEORGE BARTRAM.&rdquo; II.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From George Bartram to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Paris, April 13th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;I have just written, with a heavy heart, to my
      uncle, and I think I owe it to your kind interest in me not to omit
      writing next to you.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will feel for my disappointment, I am sure, when I tell you, in the
      fewest and plainest words, that Miss Vanstone has refused me.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My vanity may have grievously misled me, but I confess I expected a very
      different result. My vanity may be misleading me still; for I must
      acknowledge to you privately that I think Miss Vanstone was sorry to
      refuse me. The reason she gave for her decision&mdash;no doubt a
      sufficient reason in her estimation&mdash;did not at the time, and does
      not now, seem sufficient to <i>me</i>. She spoke in the sweetest and
      kindest manner, but she firmly declared that &lsquo;her family misfortunes&rsquo; left
      her no honorable alternative&mdash;but to think of my own interests as I
      had not thought of them myself&mdash;and gratefully to decline accepting
      my offer.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She was so painfully agitated that I could not venture to plead my own
      cause as I might otherwise have pleaded it. At the first attempt I made to
      touch the personal question, she entreated me to spare her, and abruptly
      left the room. I am still ignorant whether I am to interpret the &lsquo;family
      misfortunes&rsquo; which have set up this barrier between us, as meaning the
      misfortune for which her parents alone are to blame, or the misfortune of
      her having such a woman as Mrs. Noel Vanstone for her sister. In whichever
      of these circumstances the obstacle lies, it is no obstacle in my
      estimation. Can nothing remove it? Is there no hope? Forgive me for asking
      these questions. I cannot bear up against my bitter disappointment.
      Neither she, nor you, nor any one but myself, can know how I love her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ever most truly yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;GEORGE BARTRAM.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P. S.&mdash;I shall leave for England in a day or two, passing through
      London on my way to St. Crux. There are family reasons, connected with the
      hateful subject of money, which make me look forward with anything but
      pleasure to my next interview with my uncle. If you address your letter to
      Long&rsquo;s Hotel, it will be sure to reach me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      III.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Miss Garth to George Bartram.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Westmoreland House, April 16th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MR. BARTRAM&mdash;You only did me justice in supposing that your
      letter would distress me. If you had supposed that it would make me
      excessively angry as well, you would not have been far wrong. I have no
      patience with the pride and perversity of the young women of the present
      day.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have heard from Norah. It is a long letter, stating the particulars in
      full detail. I am now going to put all the confidence in your honor and
      your discretion which I really feel. For your sake, and for Norah&rsquo;s, I am
      going to let you know what the scruple really is which has misled her into
      the pride and folly of refusing you. I am old enough to speak out; and I
      can tell you, if she had only been wise enough to let her own wishes guide
      her, she would have said Yes&mdash;and gladly, too.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The original cause of all the mischief is no less a person than your
      worthy uncle&mdash;Admiral Bartram.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It seems that the admiral took it into his head (I suppose during your
      absence) to go to London by himself and to satisfy some curiosity of his
      own about Norah by calling in Portland Place, under pretense of renewing
      his old friendship with the Tyrrels. He came at luncheon-time, and saw
      Norah; and, from all I can hear, was apparently better pleased with her
      than he expected or wished to be when he came into the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;So far, this is mere guess-work; but it is unluckily certain that he and
      Mrs. Tyrrel had some talk together alone when luncheon was over. Your name
      was not mentioned; but when their conversation fell on Norah, you were in
      both their minds, of course. The admiral (doing her full justice
      personally) declared himself smitten with pity for her hard lot in life.
      The scandalous conduct of her sister must always stand (he feared) in the
      way of her future advantage. Who could marry her, without first making it
      a condition that she and her sister were to be absolute strangers to each
      other? And even then, the objection would remain&mdash;the serious
      objection to the husband&rsquo;s family&mdash;of being connected by marriage
      with such a woman as Mrs. Noel Vanstone. It was very sad; it was not the
      poor girl&rsquo;s fault, but it was none the less true that her sister was her
      rock ahead in life. So he ran on, with no real ill-feeling toward Norah,
      but with an obstinate belief in his own prejudices which bore the aspect
      of ill-feeling, and which people with more temper than judgment would be
      but too readily disposed to resent accordingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Unfortunately, Mrs. Tyrrel is one of those people. She is an excellent,
      warm-hearted woman, with a quick temper and very little judgment; strongly
      attached to Norah, and heartily interested in Norah&rsquo;s welfare. From all I
      can learn, she first resented the expression of the admiral&rsquo;s opinion, in
      his presence, as worldly and selfish in the last degree; and then
      interpreted it, behind his back, as a hint to discourage his nephew&rsquo;s
      visits, which was a downright insult offered to a lady in her own house.
      This was foolish enough so far; but worse folly was to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As soon as your uncle was gone, Mrs. Tyrrel, most unwisely and
      improperly, sent for Norah, and, repeating the conversation that had taken
      place, warned her of the reception she might expect from the man who stood
      toward you in the position of a father, if she accepted an offer of
      marriage on your part. When I tell you that Norah&rsquo;s faithful attachment to
      her sister still remains unshaken, and that there lies hidden under her
      noble submission to the unhappy circumstances of her life a proud
      susceptibility to slights of all kinds, which is deeply seated in her
      nature&mdash;you will understand the true motive of the refusal which has
      so naturally and so justly disappointed you. They are all three equally to
      blame in this matter. Your uncle was wrong to state his objections so
      roundly and inconsiderately as he did. Mrs. Tyrrel was wrong to let her
      temper get the better of her, and to suppose herself insulted where no
      insult was intended. And Norah was wrong to place a scruple of pride, and
      a hopeless belief in her sister which no strangers can be expected to
      share, above the higher claims of an attachment which might have secured
      the happiness and the prosperity of her future life.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;But the mischief has been done. The next question is, can the harm be
      remedied?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I hope and believe it can. My advice is this: Don&rsquo;t take No for an
      answer. Give her time enough to reflect on what she has done, and to
      regret it (as I believe she will regret it) in secret; trust to my
      influence over her to plead your cause for you at every opportunity I can
      find; wait patiently for the right moment, and ask her again. Men, being
      accustomed to act on reflection themselves, are a great deal too apt to
      believe that women act on reflection, too. Women do nothing of the sort.
      They act on impulse; and, in nine cases out of ten, they are heartily
      sorry for it afterward.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;In the meanwhile, you must help your own interests by inducing your uncle
      to alter his opinion, or at least to make the concession of keeping his
      opinion to himself. Mrs. Tyrrel has rushed to the conclusion that the harm
      he has done he did intentionally&mdash;which is as much as to say, in so
      many words, that he had a prophetic conviction, when he came into the
      house, of what she would do when he left it. My explanation of the matter
      is a much simpler one. I believe that the knowledge of your attachment
      naturally aroused his curiosity to see the object of it, and that Mrs.
      Tyrrel&rsquo;s injudicious praises of Norah irritated his objections into openly
      declaring themselves. Anyway, your course lies equally plain before you.
      Use your influence over your uncle to persuade him into setting matters
      right again; trust my settled resolution to see Norah your wife before six
      months more are over our heads; and believe me, your friend and
      well-wisher,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH.&rdquo; IV.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Drake to George Bartram.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, April 17th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;I direct these lines to the hotel you usually stay at in
      London, hoping that you may return soon enough from foreign parts to
      receive my letter without delay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am sorry to say that some unpleasant events have taken place at St.
      Crux since you left it, and that my honored master, the admiral, is far
      from enjoying his usual good health. On both these accounts, I venture to
      write to you on my own responsibility, for I think your presence is needed
      in the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Early in the month a most regrettable circumstance took place. Our new
      parlor-maid was discovered by Mr. Mazey, at a late hour of the night (with
      her master&rsquo;s basket of keys in her possession), prying into the private
      documents kept in the east library. The girl removed herself from the
      house the next morning before we were any of us astir, and she has not
      been heard of since. This event has annoyed and alarmed my master very
      seriously; and to make matters worse, on the day when the girl&rsquo;s
      treacherous conduct was discovered, the admiral was seized with the first
      symptoms of a severe inflammatory cold. He was not himself aware, nor was
      any one else, how he had caught the chill. The doctor was sent for, and
      kept the inflammation down until the day before yesterday, when it broke
      out again, under circumstances which I am sure you will be sorry to hear,
      as I am truly sorry to write of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On the date I have just mentioned&mdash;I mean the fifteenth of the month&mdash;my
      master himself informed me that he had been dreadfully disappointed by a
      letter received from you, which had come in the morning from foreign
      parts, and had brought him bad news. He did not tell me what the news was&mdash;but
      I have never, in all the years I have passed in the admiral&rsquo;s service,
      seen him so distressingly upset, and so unlike himself, as he was on that
      day. At night his uneasiness seemed to increase. He was in such a state of
      irritation that he could not bear the sound of Mr. Mazey&rsquo;s hard breathing
      outside his door, and he laid his positive orders on the old man to go
      into one of the bedrooms for that night. Mr. Mazey, to his own great
      regret, was of course obliged to obey.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Our only means of preventing the admiral from leaving his room in his
      sleep, if the fit unfortunately took him, being now removed, Mr. Mazey and
      I agreed to keep watch by turns through the night, sitting, with the door
      ajar, in one of the empty rooms near our master&rsquo;s bed-chamber. We could
      think of nothing better to do than this, knowing he would not allow us to
      lock him in, and not having the door key in our possession, even if we
      could have ventured to secure him in his room without his permission. I
      kept watch for the first two hours, and then Mr. Mazey took my place.
      After having been some little time in my own room, it occurred to me that
      the old man was hard of hearing, and that if his eyes grew at all heavy in
      the night, his ears were not to be trusted to warn him if anything
      happened. I slipped on my clothes again, and went back to Mr. Mazey. He
      was neither asleep nor awake&mdash;he was between the two. My mind misgave
      me, and I went on to the admiral&rsquo;s room. The door was open, and the bed
      was empty.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mr. Mazey and I went downstairs instantly. We looked in all the north
      rooms, one after another, and found no traces of him. I thought of the
      drawing-room next, and, being the more active of the two, went first to
      examine it. The moment I turned the sharp corner of the passage, I saw my
      master coming toward me through the open drawing-room door, asleep and
      dreaming, with his keys in his hands. The sliding door behind him was open
      also; and the fear came to me then, and has remained with me ever since,
      that his dream had led him through the Banqueting-Hall into the east
      rooms. We abstained from waking him, and followed his steps until he
      returned of his own accord to his bed-chamber. The next morning, I grieve
      to say, all the bad symptoms came back; and none of the remedies employed
      have succeeded in getting the better of them yet. By the doctor&rsquo;s advice,
      we refrained from telling the admiral what had happened. He is still under
      the impression that he passed the night as usual in his own room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have been careful to enter into all the particulars of this unfortunate
      accident, because neither Mr. Mazey nor myself desire to screen ourselves
      from blame, if blame we have deserved. We both acted for the best, and we
      both beg and pray you will consider our responsible situation, and come as
      soon as possible to St. Crux. Our honored master is very hard to manage;
      and the doctor thinks, as we do, that your presence is wanted in the
      house.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I remain, sir, with Mr. Mazey&rsquo;s respects and my own, your humble servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SOPHIA DRAKE.&rdquo; V.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From George Bartram to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, April 22d.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;Pray excuse my not thanking you sooner for your
      kind and consoling letter. We are in sad trouble at St. Crux. Any little
      irritation I might have felt at my poor uncle&rsquo;s unlucky interference in
      Portland Place is all forgotten in the misfortune of his serious illness.
      He is suffering from internal inflammation, produced by cold; and symptoms
      have shown themselves which are dangerous at his age. A physician from
      London is now in the house. You shall hear more in a few days. Meantime,
      believe me, with sincere gratitude,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yours most truly,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;GEORGE BARTRAM.&rdquo; VI.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn Fields, May 6th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;I have unexpectedly received some information which is
      of the most vital importance to your interests. The news of Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s
      death has reached me this morning. He expired at his own house, on the
      fourth of the present month.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;This event at once disposes of the considerations which I had previously
      endeavored to impress on you, in relation to your discovery at St. Crux.
      The wisest course we can now follow is to open communications at once with
      the executors of the deceased gentleman; addressing them through the
      medium of the admiral&rsquo;s legal adviser, in the first instance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have dispatched a letter this day to the solicitor in question. It
      simply warns him that we have lately become aware of the existence of a
      private Document, controlling the deceased gentleman in his use of the
      legacy devised to him by Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s will. My letter assumes that
      the document will be easily found among the admiral&rsquo;s papers; and it
      mentions that I am the solicitor appointed by Mrs. Noel Vanstone to
      receive communications on her behalf. My object in taking this step is to
      cause a search to be instituted for the Trust&mdash;in the very probable
      event of the executors not having met with it yet&mdash;before the usual
      measures are adopted for the administration of the admiral&rsquo;s estate. We
      will threaten legal proceedings, if we find that the object does not
      succeed. But I anticipate no such necessity. Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s executors
      must be men of high standing and position; and they will do justice to you
      and to themselves in this matter by looking for the Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under these circumstances, you will naturally ask, &lsquo;What are our
      prospects when the document is found?&rsquo; Our prospects have a bright side
      and a dark side. Let us take the bright side to begin with.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What do we actually know?
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We know, first, that the Trust does really exist. Secondly, that there is
      a provision in it relating to the marriage of Mr. George Bartram in a
      given time. Thirdly, that the time (six months from the date of your
      husband&rsquo;s death) expired on the third of this month. Fourthly, that Mr.
      George Bartram (as I have found out by inquiry, in the absence of any
      positive information on the subject possessed by yourself) is, at the
      present moment, a single man. The conclusion naturally follows, that the
      object contemplated by the Trust, in this case, is an object that has
      failed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If no other provisions have been inserted in the document&mdash;or if,
      being inserted, those other provisions should be discovered to have failed
      also&mdash;I believe it to be impossible (especially if evidence can be
      found that the admiral himself considered the Trust binding on him) for
      the executors to deal with your husband&rsquo;s fortune as legally forming part
      of Admiral Bartram&rsquo;s estate. The legacy is expressly declared to have been
      left to him, on the understanding that he applies it to certain stated
      objects&mdash;and those objects have failed. What is to be done with the
      money? It was not left to the admiral himself, on the testator&rsquo;s own
      showing; and the purposes for which it <i>was</i> left have not been, and
      cannot be, carried out. I believe (if the case here supposed really
      happens) that the money must revert to the testator&rsquo;s estate. In that
      event the Law, dealing with it as a matter of necessity, divides it into
      two equal portions. One half goes to Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s childless widow,
      and the other half is divided among Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s next of kin.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You will no doubt discover the obvious objection to the case in our
      favor, as I have here put it. You will see that it depends for its
      practical realization not on one contingency, but on a series of
      contingencies, which must all happen exactly as we wish them to happen. I
      admit the force of the objection; but I can tell you, at the same time,
      that these said contingencies are by no means so improbable as they may
      look on the face of them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have every reason to believe that the Trust, like the Will, was <i>not</i>
      drawn by a lawyer. That is one circumstance in our favor that is enough of
      itself to cast a doubt on the soundness of all, or any, of the remaining
      provisions which we may not be acquainted with. Another chance which we
      may count on is to be found, as I think, in that strange handwriting,
      placed under the signature on the third page of the Letter, which you saw,
      but which you, unhappily, omitted to read. All the probabilities point to
      those lines as written by Admiral Bartram: and the position which they
      occupy is certainly consistent with the theory that they touch the
      important subject of his own sense of obligation under the Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wish to raise no false hopes in your mind. I only desire to satisfy you
      that we have a case worth trying.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;As for the dark side of the prospect, I need not enlarge on it. After
      what I have already written, you will understand that the existence of a
      sound provision, unknown to us, in the Trust, which has been properly
      carried out by the admiral&mdash;or which can be properly carried out by
      his representatives&mdash;would be necessarily fatal to our hopes. The
      legacy would be, in this case, devoted to the purpose or purposes
      contemplated by your husband&mdash;and, from that moment, you would have
      no claim.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have only to add, that as soon as I hear from the late admiral&rsquo;s man of
      business, you shall know the result.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Believe me, dear madam, faithfully yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; VII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From George Bartram to Miss Garth.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;St. Crux, May 15th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MISS GARTH&mdash;I trouble you with another letter: partly to thank
      you for your kind expression of sympathy with me, under the loss that I
      have sustained; and partly to tell you of an extraordinary application
      made to my uncle&rsquo;s executors, in which you and Miss Vanstone may both feel
      interested, as Mrs. Noel Vanstone is directly concerned in it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Knowing my own ignorance of legal technicalities, I inclose a copy of the
      application, instead of trying to describe it. You will notice as
      suspicious, that no explanation is given of the manner in which the
      alleged discovery of one of my uncle&rsquo;s secrets was made, by persons who
      are total strangers to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;On being made acquainted with the circumstances, the executors at once
      applied to me. I could give them no positive information&mdash;for my
      uncle never consulted me on matters of business. But I felt in honor bound
      to tell them, that during the last six months of his life, the admiral had
      occasionally let fall expressions of impatience in my hearing, which led
      to the conclusion that he was annoyed by a private responsibility of some
      kind. I also mentioned that he had imposed a very strange condition on me&mdash;a
      condition which, in spite of his own assurances to the contrary, I was
      persuaded could not have emanated from himself&mdash;of marrying within a
      given time (which time has now expired), or of not receiving from him a
      certain sum of money, which I believed to be the same in amount as the sum
      bequeathed to him in my cousin&rsquo;s will. The executors agreed with me that
      these circumstances gave a color of probability to an otherwise incredible
      story; and they decided that a search should be instituted for the Secret
      Trust, nothing in the slightest degree resembling this same Trust having
      been discovered, up to that time, among the admiral&rsquo;s papers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The search (no trifle in such a house as this) has now been in full
      progress for a week. It is superintended by both the executors, and by my
      uncle&rsquo;s lawyer, who is personally, as well as professionally, known to Mr.
      Loscombe (Mrs. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s solicitor), and who has been included in
      the proceedings at the express request of Mr. Loscombe himself. Up to this
      time, nothing whatever has been found. Thousands and thousands of letters
      have been examined, and not one of them bears the remotest resemblance to
      the letter we are looking for.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Another week will bring the search to an end. It is only at my express
      request that it will be persevered with so long. But as the admiral&rsquo;s
      generosity has made me sole heir to everything he possessed, I feel bound
      to do the fullest justice to the interests of others, however hostile to
      myself those interests may be.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With this view, I have not hesitated to reveal to the lawyer a
      constitutional peculiarity of my poor uncle&rsquo;s, which was always kept a
      secret among us at his own request&mdash;I mean his tendency to
      somnambulism. I mentioned that he had been discovered (by the housekeeper
      and his old servant) walking in his sleep, about three weeks before his
      death, and that the part of the house in which he had been seen, and the
      basket of keys which he was carrying in his hand, suggested the inference
      that he had come from one of the rooms in the east wing, and that he might
      have opened some of the pieces of furniture in one of them. I surprised
      the lawyer (who seemed to be quite ignorant of the extraordinary actions
      constantly performed by somnambulists), by informing him that my uncle
      could find his way about the house, lock and unlock doors, and remove
      objects of all kinds from one place to another, as easily in his sleep as
      in his waking hours. And I declared that, while I felt the faintest doubt
      in my own mind whether he might not have been dreaming of the Trust on the
      night in question, and putting the dream in action in his sleep, I should
      not feel satisfied unless the rooms in the east wing were searched again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is only right to add that there is not the least foundation in fact
      for this idea of mine. During the latter part of his fatal illness, my
      poor uncle was quite incapable of speaking on any subject whatever. From
      the time of my arrival at St. Crux, in the middle of last month, to the
      time of his death, not a word dropped from him which referred in the
      remotest way to the Secret Trust.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here then, for the present, the matter rests. If you think it right to
      communicate the contents of this letter to Miss Vanstone, pray tell her
      that it will not be my fault if her sister&rsquo;s assertion (however
      preposterous it may seem to my uncle&rsquo;s executors) is not fairly put to the
      proof.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Believe me, dear Miss Garth, always truly yours,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;GEORGE BARTRAM.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;P. S.&mdash;As soon as all business matters are settled, I am going
      abroad for some months, to try the relief of change of scene. The house
      will be shut up, and left under the charge of Mrs. Drake. I have not
      forgotten your once telling me that you should like to see St. Crux, if
      you ever found yourself in this neighborhood. If you are at all likely to
      be in Essex during the time when I am abroad, I have provided against the
      chance of your being disappointed, by leaving instructions with Mrs. Drake
      to give you, and any friends of yours, the freest admission to the house
      and grounds.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      VIII.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Noel Vanstone.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn Fields, May 24th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;DEAR MADAM&mdash;After a whole fortnight&rsquo;s search&mdash;conducted, I am
      bound to admit, with the most conscientious and unrelaxing care&mdash;no
      such document as the Secret Trust has been found among the papers left at
      St. Crux by the late Admiral Bartram.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Under these circumstances, the executors have decided on acting under the
      only recognizable authority which they have to guide them&mdash;the
      admiral&rsquo;s own will. This document (executed some years since) bequeaths
      the whole of his estate, both real and personal (that is to say, all the
      lands he possesses, and all the money he possesses, at the time of his
      death), to his nephew. The will is plain, and the result is inevitable.
      Your husband&rsquo;s fortune is lost to you from this moment. Mr. George
      Bartram legally inherits it, as he legally inherits the house and estate
      of St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I make no comment upon this extraordinary close to the proceedings. The
      Trust may have been destroyed, or the Trust may be hidden in some place of
      concealment inaccessible to discovery. Either way, it is, in my opinion,
      impossible to found any valid legal declaration on a knowledge of the
      document so fragmentary and so incomplete as the knowledge which you
      possess. If other lawyers differ from me on this point, by all means
      consult them. I have devoted money enough and time enough to the
      unfortunate attempt to assert your interests; and my connection with the
      matter must, from this moment, be considered at an end.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your obedient servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; IX.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mrs. Ruddock (Lodging-house Keeper) to Mr. Loscombe.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Park Terrace, St. John&rsquo;s Wood, June 2d.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;SIR&mdash;Having, by Mrs. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s directions, taken letters for
      her to the post, addressed to you&mdash;and knowing no one else to apply
      to&mdash;I beg to inquire whether you are acquainted with any of her
      friends; for I think it right that they should be stirred up to take some
      steps about her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Mrs. Vanstone first came to me in November last, when she and her maid
      occupied my apartments. On that occasion, and again on this, she has given
      me no cause to complain of her. She has behaved like a lady, and paid me
      my due. I am writing, as a mother of a family, under a sense of
      responsibility&mdash;I am not writing with an interested motive.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;After proper warning given, Mrs. Vanstone (who is now quite alone) leaves
      me to-morrow. She has not concealed from me that her circumstances are
      fallen very low, and that she cannot afford to remain in my house. This is
      all she has told me&mdash;I know nothing of where she is going, or what
      she means to do next. But I have every reason to believe she desires to
      destroy all traces by which she might be found, after leaving this place&mdash;for
      I discovered her in tears yesterday, burning letters which were doubtless
      letters from her friends. In looks and conduct she has altered most
      shockingly in the last week. I believe there is some dreadful trouble on
      her mind; and I am afraid, from what I see of her, that she is on the eve
      of a serious illness. It is very sad to see such a young woman so utterly
      deserted and friendless as she is now.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Excuse my troubling you with this letter; it is on my conscience to write
      it. If you know any of her relations, please warn them that time is not to
      be wasted. If they lose to-morrow, they may lose the last chance of
      finding her.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Your humble servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;CATHERINE RUDDOCK.&rdquo; X.
    </p>
    <p>
      <i>From Mr. Loscombe to Mrs. Ruddock.</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Lincoln&rsquo;s Inn Fields, June 2d.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MADAM&mdash;MY only connection with Mrs. Noel Vanstone was a professional
      one, and that connection is now at an end. I am not acquainted with any of
      her friends; and I cannot undertake to interfere personally, either with
      her present or future proceedings.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Regretting my inability to afford you any assistance, I remain, your
      obedient servant,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;JOHN LOSCOMBE.&rdquo; 
    </p>
    <!--se:split--><h2>
      THE LAST SCENE
    </h2>
    <h3>
      AARON&rsquo;S BUILDINGS
    </h3>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER I.
    </h3>
    <p>
      ON the seventh of June, the owners of the merchantman <i>Deliverance</i>
      received news that the ship had touched at Plymouth to land passengers,
      and had then continued her homeward voyage to the Port of London. Five
      days later, the vessel was in the river, and was towed into the East India
      Docks.
    </p>
    <p>
      Having transacted the business on shore for which he was personally
      responsible, Captain Kirke made the necessary arrangements, by letter, for
      visiting his brother-in-law&rsquo;s parsonage in Suffolk, on the seventeenth of
      the month. As usual in such cases, he received a list of commissions to
      execute for his sister on the day before he left London. One of these
      commissions took him into the neighborhood of Camden Town. He drove to his
      destination from the Docks; and then, dismissing the vehicle, set forth to
      walk back southward, toward the New Road.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was not well acquainted with the district; and his attention wandered
      further and further away from the scene around him as he went on. His
      thoughts, roused by the prospect of seeing his sister again, had led his
      memory back to the night when he had parted from her, leaving the house on
      foot. The spell so strangely laid on him, in that past time, had kept its
      hold through all after-events. The face that had haunted him on the lonely
      road had haunted him again on the lonely sea. The woman who had followed
      him, as in a dream, to his sister&rsquo;s door, had followed him&mdash;thought
      of his thought, and spirit of his spirit&mdash;to the deck of his ship.
      Through storm and calm on the voyage out, through storm and calm on the
      voyage home, she had been with him. In the ceaseless turmoil of the London
      streets, she was with him now. He knew what the first question on his lips
      would be, when he had seen his sister and her boys. &ldquo;I shall try to talk
      of something else,&rdquo; he thought; &ldquo;but when Lizzie and I am alone, it will
      come out in spite of me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The necessity of waiting to let a string of carts pass at a turning before
      he crossed awakened him to present things. He looked about in a momentary
      confusion. The street was strange to him; he had lost his way.
    </p>
    <p>
      The first foot passenger of whom he inquired appeared to have no time to
      waste in giving information. Hurriedly directing him to cross to the other
      side of the road, to turn down the first street he came to on his right
      hand, and then to ask again, the stranger unceremoniously hastened on
      without waiting to be thanked.
    </p>
    <p>
      Kirke followed his directions and took the turning on his right. The
      street was short and narrow, and the houses on either side were of the
      poorer order. He looked up as he passed the corner to see what the name of
      the place might be. It was called &ldquo;Aaron&rsquo;s Buildings.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Low down on the side of the &ldquo;Buildings&rdquo; along which he was walking, a
      little crowd of idlers was assembled round two cabs, both drawn up before
      the door of the same house. Kirke advanced to the crowd, to ask his way of
      any civil stranger among them who might <i>not</i> be in a hurry this
      time. On approaching the cabs, he found a woman disputing with the
      drivers; and heard enough to inform him that two vehicles had been sent
      for by mistake, where only one was wanted.
    </p>
    <p>
      The house door was open; and when he turned that way next, he looked
      easily into the passage, over the heads of the people in front of him.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sight that met his eyes should have been shielded in pity from the
      observation of the street. He saw a slatternly girl, with a frightened
      face, standing by an old chair placed in the middle of the passage, and
      holding a woman on the chair, too weak and helpless to support herself&mdash;a
      woman apparently in the last stage of illness, who was about to be
      removed, when the dispute outside was ended, in one of the cabs. Her head
      was drooping when he first saw her, and an old shawl which covered it had
      fallen forward so as to hide the upper part of her face.
    </p>
    <p>
      Before he could look away again, the girl in charge of her raised her head
      and restored the shawl to its place. The action disclosed her face to
      view, for an instant only, before her head drooped once more on her bosom.
      In that instant he saw the woman whose beauty was the haunting remembrance
      of his life&mdash;whose image had been vivid in his mind not five minutes
      since.
    </p>
    <p>
      The shock of the double recognition&mdash;the recognition, at the same
      moment, of the face, and of the dreadful change in it&mdash;struck him
      speechless and helpless. The steady presence of mind in all emergencies
      which had become a habit of his life, failed him for the first time. The
      poverty-stricken street, the squalid mob round the door, swam before his
      eyes. He staggered back and caught at the iron railings of the house
      behind him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where are they taking her to?&rdquo; he heard a woman ask, close at his side.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To the hospital, if they will have her,&rdquo; was the reply. &ldquo;And to the
      work-house, if they won&rsquo;t.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      That horrible answer roused him. He pushed his way through the crowd and
      entered the house.
    </p>
    <p>
      The misunderstanding on the pavement had been set right, and one of the
      cabs had driven off.
    </p>
    <p>
      As he crossed the threshold of the door he confronted the people of the
      house at the moment when they were moving her. The cabman who had remained
      was on one side of the chair, and the woman who had been disputing with
      the two drivers was on the other. They were just lifting her, when Kirke&rsquo;s
      tall figure darkened the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What are you doing with that lady?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      The cabman looked up with the insolence of his reply visible in his eyes,
      before his lips could utter it. But the woman, quicker than he, saw the
      suppressed agitation in Kirke&rsquo;s face, and dropped her hold of the chair in
      an instant.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you know her, sir?&rdquo; asked the woman, eagerly. &ldquo;Are you one of her
      friends?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Kirke, without hesitation.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s not my fault, sir,&rdquo; pleaded the woman, shirking under the look he
      fixed on her. &ldquo;I would have waited patiently till her friends found her&mdash;I
      would, indeed!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Kirke made no reply. He turned, and spoke to the cabman.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Go out,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;and close the door after you. I&rsquo;ll send you down your
      money directly. What room in the house did you take her from, when you
      brought her here?&rdquo; he resumed, addressing himself to the woman again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The first floor back, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Show me the way to it.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stooped, and lifted Magdalen in his arms. Her head rested gently on the
      sailor&rsquo;s breast; her eyes looked up wonderingly into the sailor&rsquo;s face.
      She smiled, and whispered to him vacantly. Her mind had wandered back to
      old days at home; and her few broken words showed that she fancied herself
      a child again in her father&rsquo;s arms. &ldquo;Poor papa!&rdquo; she said, softly. &ldquo;Why do
      you look so sorry? Poor papa!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The woman led the way into the back room on the first floor. It was very
      small; it was miserably furnished. But the little bed was clean, and the
      few things in the room were neatly kept. Kirke laid her tenderly on the
      bed. She caught one of his hands in her burning fingers. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t distress
      mamma about me,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Send for Norah.&rdquo; Kirke tried gently to release
      his hand; but she only clasped it the more eagerly. He sat down by the
      bedside to wait until it pleased her to release him. The woman stood
      looking at them and crying, in a corner of the room. Kirke observed her
      attentively. &ldquo;Speak,&rdquo; he said, after an interval, in low, quiet tones.
      &ldquo;Speak in <i>her</i> presence; and tell me the truth.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With many words, with many tears, the woman spoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had let her first floor to the lady a fortnight since. The lady had
      paid a week&rsquo;s rent, and had given the name of Gray. She had been out from
      morning till night, for the first three days, and had come home again, on
      every occasion, with a wretchedly weary, disappointed look. The woman of
      the house had suspected that she was in hiding from her friends, under a
      false name; and that she had been vainly trying to raise money, or to get
      some employment, on the three days when she was out for so long, and when
      she looked so disappointed on coming home. However that might be, on the
      fourth day she had fallen ill, with shivering fits and hot fits, turn and
      turn about. On the fifth day she was worse; and on the sixth, she was too
      sleepy at one time, and too light-headed at another, to be spoken to. The
      chemist (who did the doctoring in those parts) had come and looked at her,
      and had said he thought it was a bad fever. He had left a &ldquo;saline
      draught,&rdquo; which the woman of the house had paid for out of her own pocket,
      and had administered without effect. She had ventured on searching the
      only box which the lady had brought with her; and had found nothing in it
      but a few necessary articles of linen&mdash;no dresses, no ornaments, not
      so much as the fragment of a letter which might help in discovering her
      friends. Between the risk of keeping her under these circumstances, and
      the barbarity of turning a sick woman into the street, the landlady
      herself had not hesitated. She would willingly have kept her tenant, on
      the chance of the lady&rsquo;s recovery, and on the chance of her friends
      turning up. But not half an hour since, her husband&mdash;who never came
      near the house, except to take her money&mdash;had come to rob her of her
      little earnings, as usual. She had been obliged to tell him that no rent
      was in hand for the first floor, and that none was likely to be in hand
      until the lady recovered, or her friends found her. On hearing this, he
      had mercilessly insisted&mdash;well or ill&mdash;that the lady should go.
      There was the hospital to take her to; and if the hospital shut its doors,
      there was the workhouse to try next. If she was not out of the place in an
      hour&rsquo;s time, he threatened to come back and take her out himself. His wife
      knew but too well that he was brute enough to be as good as his word; and
      no other choice had been left her but to do as she had done, for the sake
      of the lady herself.
    </p>
    <p>
      The woman told her shocking story, with every appearance of being honestly
      ashamed of it. Toward the end, Kirke felt the clasp of the burning fingers
      slackening round his hand. He looked back at the bed again. Her weary eyes
      were closing; and, with her face still turned toward the sailor, she was
      sinking into sleep.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is there any one in the front room?&rdquo; said Kirke, in a whisper. &ldquo;Come in
      there; I have something to say to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The woman followed him through the door of communication between the
      rooms.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How much does she owe you?&rdquo; he asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      The landlady mentioned the sum. Kirke put it down before her on the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where is your husband?&rdquo; was his next question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Waiting at the public-house, sir, till the hour is up.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You can take him the money or not, as you think right,&rdquo; said Kirke,
      quietly. &ldquo;I have only one thing to tell you, as far as your husband is
      concerned. If you want to see every bone in his skin broken, let him come
      to the house while I am in it. Stop! I have something more to say. Do you
      know of any doctor in the neighborhood who can be depended on?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not in our neighborhood, sir. But I know of one within half an hour&rsquo;s
      walk of us.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Take the cab at the door; and, if you find him at home, bring him back in
      it. Say I am waiting here for his opinion on a very serious case. He shall
      be well paid, and you shall be well paid. Make haste!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The woman left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Kirke sat down alone, to wait for her return. He hid his face in his
      hands, and tried to realize the strange and touching situation in which
      the accident of a moment had placed him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Hidden in the squalid by-ways of London under a false name; cast,
      friendless and helpless, on the mercy of strangers, by illness which had
      struck her prostrate, mind and body alike&mdash;so he met her again, the
      woman who had opened a new world of beauty to his mind; the woman who had
      called Love to life in him by a look! What horrible misfortune had struck
      her so cruelly, and struck her so low? What mysterious destiny had guided
      him to the last refuge of her poverty and despair, in the hour of her
      sorest need? &ldquo;If it is ordered that I am to see her again, I <i>shall</i>
      see her.&rdquo; Those words came back to him now&mdash;the memorable words that
      he had spoken to his sister at parting. With that thought in his heart, he
      had gone where his duty called him. Months and months had passed;
      thousands and thousands of miles, protracting their desolate length on the
      unresting waters had rolled between them. And through the lapse of time,
      and over the waste of oceans&mdash;day after day, and night after night,
      as the winds of heaven blew, and the good ship toiled on before them&mdash;he
      had advanced nearer and nearer to the end that was waiting for him; he had
      journeyed blindfold to the meeting on the threshold of that miserable
      door. &ldquo;What has brought me here?&rdquo; he said to himself in a whisper. &ldquo;The
      mercy of chance? No. The mercy of God.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He waited, unregardful of the place, unconscious of the time, until the
      sound of footsteps on the stairs came suddenly between him and his
      thoughts. The door opened, and the doctor was shown into the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Dr. Merrick,&rdquo; said the landlady, placing a chair for him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;<i>Mr.</i> Merrick,&rdquo; said the visitor, smiling quietly as he took the
      chair. &ldquo;I am not a physician&mdash;I am a surgeon in general practice.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Physician or surgeon, there was something in his face and manner which
      told Kirke at a glance that he was a man to be relied on.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a few preliminary words on either side, Mr. Merrick sent the
      landlady into the bedroom to see if his patient was awake or asleep. The
      woman returned, and said she was &ldquo;betwixt the two, light in the head
      again, and burning hot.&rdquo; The doctor went at once into the bedroom, telling
      the landlady to follow him, and to close the door behind her.
    </p>
    <p>
      A weary time passed before he came back into the front room. When he
      re-appeared, his face spoke for him, before any question could be asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it a serious illness?&rdquo; said Kirke his voice sinking low, his eyes
      anxiously fixed on the doctor&rsquo;s face.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is a <i>dangerous</i> illness,&rdquo; said Mr. Merrick, with an emphasis on
      the word.
    </p>
    <p>
      He drew his chair nearer to Kirke and looked at him attentively.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask you some questions which are not strictly medical?&rdquo; he
      inquired.
    </p>
    <p>
      Kirke bowed.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Can you tell me what her life has been before she came into this house,
      and before she fell ill?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no means of knowing. I have just returned to England after a long
      absence.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Did you know of her coming here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I only discovered it by accident.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Has she no female relations? No mother? no sister? no one to take care of
      her but yourself?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No one&mdash;unless I can succeed in tracing her relations. No one but
      myself.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Merrick was silent. He looked at Kirke more attentively than ever.
      &ldquo;Strange!&rdquo; thought the doctor. &ldquo;He is here, in sole charge of her&mdash;and
      is this all he knows?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Kirke saw the doubt in his face; and addressed himself straight to that
      doubt, before another word passed between them,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I see my position here surprises you,&rdquo; he said, simply. &ldquo;Will you
      consider it the position of a relation&mdash;the position of her brother
      or her father&mdash;until her friends can be found?&rdquo; His voice faltered,
      and he laid his hand earnestly on the doctor&rsquo;s arm. &ldquo;I have taken this
      trust on myself,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;and as God shall judge me, I will not be
      unworthy of it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The poor weary head lay on his breast again, the poor fevered fingers
      clasped his hand once more, as he spoke those words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I believe you,&rdquo; said the doctor, warmly. &ldquo;I believe you are an honest
      man.&mdash;Pardon me if I have seemed to intrude myself on your
      confidence. I respect your reserve&mdash;from this moment it is sacred to
      me. In justice to both of us, let me say that the questions I have asked
      were not prompted by mere curiosity. No common cause will account for the
      illness which has laid my patient on that bed. She has suffered some
      long-continued mental trial, some wearing and terrible suspense&mdash;and
      she has broken down under it. It might have helped me if I could have
      known what the nature of the trial was, and how long or how short a time
      elapsed before she sank under it. In that hope I spoke.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When you told me she was dangerously ill,&rdquo; said Kirke, &ldquo;did you mean
      danger to her reason or to her life?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;To both,&rdquo; replied Mr. Merrick. &ldquo;Her whole nervous system has given way;
      all the ordinary functions of her brain are in a state of collapse. I can
      give you no plainer explanation than that of the nature of the malady. The
      fever which frightens the people of the house is merely the effect. The
      cause is what I have told you. She may lie on that bed for weeks to come;
      passing alternately, without a gleam of consciousness, from a state of
      delirium to a state of repose. You must not be alarmed if you find her
      sleep lasting far beyond the natural time. That sleep is a better remedy
      than any I can give, and nothing must disturb it. All our art can
      accomplish is to watch her, to help her with stimulants from time to time,
      and to wait for what Nature will do.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Must she remain here? Is there no hope of our being able to remove her to
      a better place?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No hope whatever, for the present. She has already been disturbed, as I
      understand, and she is seriously the worse for it. Even if she gets
      better, even if she comes to herself again, it would still be a dangerous
      experiment to move her too soon&mdash;the least excitement or alarm would
      be fatal to her. You must make the best of this place as it is. The
      landlady has my directions; and I will send a good nurse to help her.
      There is nothing more to be done. So far as her life can be said to be in
      any human hands, it is as much in your hands now as in mine. Everything
      depends on the care that is taken of her, under your direction, in this
      house.&rdquo; With those farewell words he rose and quitted the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      Left by himself, Kirke walked to the door of communication, and, knocking
      at it softly, told the landlady he wished to speak with her.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was far more composed, far more like his own resolute self, after his
      interview with the doctor, than he had been before it. A man living in the
      artificial social atmosphere which <i>this</i> man had never breathed
      would have felt painfully the worldly side of the situation&mdash;its
      novelty and strangeness; the serious present difficulty in which it placed
      him; the numberless misinterpretations in the future to which it might
      lead. Kirke never gave the situation a thought. He saw nothing but the
      duty it claimed from him&mdash;a duty which the doctor&rsquo;s farewell words
      had put plainly before his mind. Everything depended on the care taken of
      her, under his direction, in that house. There was his responsibility, and
      he unconsciously acted under it, exactly as he would have acted in a case
      of emergency with women and children on board his own ship. He questioned
      the landlady in short, sharp sentences; the only change in him was in the
      lowered tone of his voice, and in the anxious looks which he cast, from
      time to time, at the room where she lay.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do you understand what the doctor has told you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The house must be kept quiet. Who lives in the house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only me and my daughter, sir; we live in the parlors. Times have gone
      badly with us since Lady Day. Both the rooms above this are to let.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I will take them both, and the two rooms down here as well. Do you know
      of any active trustworthy man who can run on errands for me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes, sir. Shall I go&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No; let your daughter go. You must not leave the house until the nurse
      comes. Don&rsquo;t send the messenger up here. Men of that sort tread heavily.
      I&rsquo;ll go down, and speak to him at the door.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He went down when the messenger came, and sent him first to purchase pen,
      ink, and paper. The man&rsquo;s next errand dispatched him to make inquiries for
      a person who could provide for deadening the sound of passing wheels in
      the street by laying down tan before the house in the usual way. This
      object accomplished, the messenger received two letters to post. The first
      was addressed to Kirke&rsquo;s brother-in-law. It told him, in few and plain
      words, what had happened; and left him to break the news to his wife as he
      thought best. The second letter was directed to the landlord of the
      Aldborough Hotel. Magdalen&rsquo;s assumed name at North Shingles was the only
      name by which Kirke knew her; and the one chance of tracing her relatives
      that he could discern was the chance of discovering her reputed uncle and
      aunt by means of inquiries starting from Aldborough.
    </p>
    <p>
      Toward the close of the afternoon a decent middle-aged woman came to the
      house, with a letter from Mr. Merrick. She was well known to the doctor as
      a trustworthy and careful person, who had nursed his own wife; and she
      would be assisted, from time to time, by a lady who was a member of a
      religious Sisterhood in the district, and whose compassionate interest had
      been warmly aroused in the case. Toward eight o&rsquo;clock that evening the
      doctor himself would call and see that his patient wanted for nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      The arrival of the nurse, and the relief of knowing that she was to be
      trusted, left Kirke free to think of himself. His luggage was ready packed
      for his contemplated journey to Suffolk the next day. It was merely
      necessary to transport it from the hotel to the house in Aaron&rsquo;s
      Buildings.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stopped once only on his way to the hotel to look at a toyshop in one
      of the great thoroughfares. The miniature ships in the window reminded him
      of his nephew. &ldquo;My little name-sake will be sadly disappointed at not
      seeing me to-morrow,&rdquo; he thought. &ldquo;I must make it up to the boy by sending
      him something from his uncle.&rdquo; He went into the shop and bought one of the
      ships. It was secured in a box, and packed and directed in his presence.
      He put a card on the deck of the miniature vessel before the cover of the
      box was nailed on, bearing this inscription: &ldquo;A ship for the little
      sailor, with the big sailor&rsquo;s love.&rdquo;&mdash;&ldquo;Children like to be written
      to, ma&rsquo;am,&rdquo; he said, apologetically, to the woman behind the counter.
      &ldquo;Send the box as soon as you can&mdash;I am anxious the boy should get it
      to-morrow.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Toward the dusk of the evening he returned with his luggage to Aaron&rsquo;s
      Buildings. He took off his boots in the passage and carried his trunk
      upstairs himself; stopping, as he passed the first floor, to make his
      inquiries. Mr. Merrick was present to answer them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She was awake and wandering,&rdquo; said the doctor, &ldquo;a few minutes since. But
      we have succeeded in composing her, and she is sleeping now.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have no words escaped her, sir, which might help us to find her friends?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Merrick shook his head.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Weeks and weeks may pass yet,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;and that poor girl&rsquo;s story may
      still be a sealed secret to all of us. We can only wait.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So the day ended&mdash;the first of many days that were to come.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER II.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE warm sunlight of July shining softly through a green blind; an open
      window with fresh flowers set on the sill; a strange bed, in a strange
      room; a giant figure of the female sex (like a dream of Mrs. Wragge)
      towering aloft on one side of the bed, and trying to clap its hands;
      another woman (quickly) stopping the hands before they could make any
      noise; a mild expostulating voice (like a dream of Mrs. Wragge again)
      breaking the silence in these words, &ldquo;She knows me, ma&rsquo;am, she knows me;
      if I mustn&rsquo;t be happy, it will be the death of me!&rdquo;&mdash;such were the
      first sights, such were the first sounds, to which, after six weeks of
      oblivion, Magdalen suddenly and strangely awoke.
    </p>
    <p>
      After a little, the sights grew dim again, and the sounds sank into
      silence. Sleep, the merciful, took her once more, and hushed her back to
      repose.
    </p>
    <p>
      Another day&mdash;and the sights were clearer, the sounds were louder.
      Another&mdash;and she heard a man&rsquo;s voice, through the door, asking for
      news from the sick-room. The voice was strange to her; it was always
      cautiously lowered to the same quiet tone. It inquired after her, in the
      morning, when she woke&mdash;at noon, when she took her refreshment&mdash;in
      the evening, before she dropped asleep again. &ldquo;Who is so anxious about
      me?&rdquo; That was the first thought her mind was strong enough to form&mdash;&ldquo;Who
      is so anxious about me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      More days&mdash;and she could speak to the nurse at her bedside; she could
      answer the questions of an elderly man, who knew far more about her than
      she knew about herself, and who told her he was Mr. Merrick, the doctor;
      she could sit up in bed, supported by pillows, wondering what had happened
      to her, and where she was; she could feel a growing curiosity about that
      quiet voice, which still asked after her, morning, noon, and night, on the
      other side of the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      Another day&rsquo;s delay&mdash;and Mr. Merrick asked her if she was strong
      enough to see an old friend. A meek voice, behind him, articulating high
      in the air, said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s only me.&rdquo; The voice was followed by the prodigious
      bodily apparition of Mrs. Wragge, with her cap all awry, and one of her
      shoes in the next room. &ldquo;Oh, look at her! look at her!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Wragge,
      in an ecstasy, dropping on her knees at Magdalen&rsquo;s bedside, with a thump
      that shook the house. &ldquo;Bless her heart, she&rsquo;s well enough to laugh at me
      already. &lsquo;Cheer, boys, cheer&mdash;!&rsquo; I beg your pardon, doctor, my
      conduct isn&rsquo;t ladylike, I know. It&rsquo;s my head, sir; it isn&rsquo;t <i>me.</i> I
      must give vent somehow, or my head will burst!&rdquo; No coherent sentence, in
      answer to any sort of question put to her, could be extracted that morning
      from Mrs. Wragge. She rose from one climax of verbal confusion to another&mdash;and
      finished her visit under the bed, groping inscrutably for the second shoe.
    </p>
    <p>
      The morrow came&mdash;and Mr. Merrick promised that she should see another
      old friend on the next day. In the evening, when the inquiring voice asked
      after her, as usual, and when the door was opened a few inches to give the
      reply, she answered faintly for herself: &ldquo;I am better, thank you.&rdquo; There
      was a moment of silence&mdash;and then, just as the door was shut again,
      the voice sank to a whisper, and said, fervently, &ldquo;Thank God!&rdquo; Who was he?
      She had asked them all, and no one would tell her. Who was he?
    </p>
    <p>
      The next day came; and she heard her door opened softly. Brisk footsteps
      tripped into the room; a lithe little figure advanced to the bed-side. Was
      it a dream again? No! There he was in his own evergreen reality, with the
      copious flow of language pouring smoothly from his lips; with the lambent
      dash of humor twinkling in his party-colored eyes&mdash;there he was, more
      audacious, more persuasive, more respectable than ever, in a suit of
      glossy black, with a speckless white cravat, and a rampant shirt frill&mdash;the
      unblushing, the invincible, unchangeable Wragge!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not a word, my dear girl!&rdquo; said the captain, seating himself comfortably
      at the bedside, in his old confidential way. &ldquo;I am to do all the talking;
      and, I think you will own, a more competent man for the purpose could not
      possibly have been found. I am really delighted&mdash;honestly delighted,
      if I may use such an apparently inappropriate word&mdash;to see you again,
      and to see you getting well. I have often thought of you; I have often
      missed you; I have often said to myself&mdash;never mind what! Clear the
      stage, and drop the curtain on the past. <i>Dum vivimus, vivamus!</i>
      Pardon the pedantry of a Latin quotation, my dear, and tell me how I look.
      Am I, or am I not, the picture of a prosperous man?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen attempted to answer him. The captain&rsquo;s deluge of words flowed
      over her again in a moment.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t exert yourself,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll put all your questions for you.
      What have I been about? Why do I look so remarkably well off? And how in
      the world did I find my way to this house? My dear girl, I have been
      occupied, since we last saw each other, in slightly modifying my old
      professional habits. I have shifted from Moral Agriculture to Medical
      Agriculture. Formerly I preyed on the public sympathy, now I prey on the
      public stomach. Stomach and sympathy, sympathy and stomach&mdash;look them
      both fairly in the face when you reach the wrong side of fifty, and you
      will agree with me that they come to much the same thing. However that may
      be, here I am&mdash;incredible as it may appear&mdash;a man with an
      income, at last. The founders of my fortune are three in number. Their
      names are Aloes, Scammony, and Gamboge. In plainer words, I am now living&mdash;on
      a Pill. I made a little money (if you remember) by my friendly connection
      with you. I made a little more by the happy decease (<i>Requiescat in
      Pace!</i>) of that female relative of Mrs. Wragge&rsquo;s from whom, as I told
      you, my wife had expectations. Very good. What do you think I did? I
      invested the whole of my capital, at one fell swoop, in advertisements,
      and purchased my drugs and my pill-boxes on credit. The result is now
      before you. Here I am, a Grand Financial Fact. Here I am, with my clothes
      positively paid for; with a balance at my banker&rsquo;s; with my servant in
      livery, and my gig at the door; solvent, flourishing, popular&mdash;and
      all on a Pill.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen smiled. The captain&rsquo;s face assumed an expression of mock gravity;
      he looked as if there was a serious side to the question, and as if he
      meant to put it next.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It&rsquo;s no laughing matter to the public, my dear,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;They can&rsquo;t get
      rid of me and my Pill; they must take us. There is not a single form of
      appeal in the whole range of human advertisement which I am not making to
      the unfortunate public at this moment. Hire the last new novel, there I
      am, inside the boards of the book. Send for the last new Song&mdash;the
      instant you open the leaves, I drop out of it. Take a cab&mdash;I fly in
      at the window in red. Buy a box of tooth-powder at the chemist&rsquo;s&mdash;I
      wrap it up for you in blue. Show yourself at the theater&mdash;I flutter
      down on you in yellow. The mere titles of my advertisements are quite
      irresistible. Let me quote a few from last week&rsquo;s issue. Proverbial
      Title: &lsquo;A Pill in time saves Nine.&rsquo; Familiar Title: &lsquo;Excuse me, how is
      your Stomach?&rsquo; Patriotic Title: &lsquo;What are the three characteristics of a
      true-born Englishman? His Hearth, his Home, and his Pill.&rsquo; Title in the
      form of a nursery dialogue: &lsquo;Mamma, I am not well.&rsquo; &lsquo;What is the matter,
      my pet?&rsquo; &lsquo;I want a little Pill.&rsquo; Title in the form of a Historical
      Anecdote: &lsquo;New Discovery in the Mine of English History. When the Princes
      were smothered in the Tower, their faithful attendant collected all their
      little possessions left behind them. Among the touching trifles dear to
      the poor boys, he found a tiny Box. It contained the Pill of the Period.
      Is it necessary to say how inferior that Pill was to its Successor, which
      prince and peasant alike may now obtain?&rsquo;&mdash;Et cetera, et cetera. The
      place in which my Pill is made is an advertisement in itself. I have got
      one of the largest shops in London. Behind one counter (visible to the
      public through the lucid medium of plate-glass) are four-and-twenty young
      men, in white aprons, making the Pill. Behind another counter are
      four-and-twenty young men, in white cravats, making the boxes. At the
      bottom of the shop are three elderly accountants, posting the vast
      financial transactions accruing from the Pill in three enormous ledgers.
      Over the door are my name, portrait, and autograph, expanded to colossal
      proportions, and surrounded in flowing letters, by the motto of the
      establishment, &lsquo;Down with the Doctors!&rsquo; Even Mrs. Wragge contributes her
      quota to this prodigious enterprise. She is the celebrated woman whom I
      have cured of indescribable agonies from every complaint under the sun.
      Her portrait is engraved on all the wrappers, with the following
      inscription beneath it: &lsquo;Before she took the Pill you might have blown
      this patient away with a feather. Look at her now!!!&rsquo; Last, not least, my
      dear girl, the Pill is the cause of my finding my way to this house. My
      department in the prodigious Enterprise already mentioned is to scour the
      United Kingdom in a gig, establishing Agencies everywhere. While founding
      one of those Agencies, I heard of a certain friend of mine, who had lately
      landed in England, after a long sea-voyage. I got his address in London&mdash;he
      was a lodger in this house. I called on him forthwith, and was stunned by
      the news of your illness. Such, in brief, is the history of my existing
      connection with British Medicine; and so it happens that you see me at the
      present moment sitting in the present chair, now as ever, yours truly,
      Horatio Wragge.&rdquo; In these terms the captain brought his personal statement
      to a close. He looked more and more attentively at Magdalen, the nearer he
      got to the conclusion. Was there some latent importance attaching to his
      last words which did not appear on the face of them? There was. His visit
      to the sick-room had a serious object, and that object he had now
      approached.
    </p>
    <p>
      In describing the circumstances under which he had become acquainted with
      Magdalen&rsquo;s present position, Captain Wragge had skirted, with his
      customary dexterity, round the remote boundaries of truth. Emboldened by
      the absence of any public scandal in connection with Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s
      marriage, or with the event of his death as announced in the newspaper
      obituary, the captain, roaming the eastern circuit, had ventured back to
      Aldborough a fortnight since, to establish an agency there for the sale of
      his wonderful Pill. No one had recognized him but the landlady of the
      hotel, who at once insisted on his entering the house and reading Kirke&rsquo;s
      letter to her husband. The same night Captain Wragge was in London, and
      was closeted with the sailor in the second-floor room at Aaron&rsquo;s
      Buildings.
    </p>
    <p>
      The serious nature of the situation, the indisputable certainty that Kirke
      must fail in tracing Magdalen&rsquo;s friends unless he first knew who she
      really was, had decided the captain on disclosing part, at least, of the
      truth. Declining to enter into any particulars&mdash;for family reasons,
      which Magdalen might explain on her recovery, if she pleased&mdash;he
      astounded Kirke by telling him that the friendless woman whom he had
      rescued, and whom he had only known up to that moment as Miss Bygrave&mdash;was
      no other than the youngest daughter of Andrew Vanstone. The disclosure, on
      Kirke&rsquo;s side, of his father&rsquo;s connection with the young officer in Canada,
      had followed naturally on the revelation of Magdalen&rsquo;s real name. Captain
      Wragge had expressed his surprise, but had made no further remark at the
      time. A fortnight later, however, when the patient&rsquo;s recovery forced the
      serious difficulty on the doctor of meeting the questions which Magdalen
      was sure to ask, the captain&rsquo;s ingenuity had come, as usual, to the
      rescue.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t tell her the truth,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;without awakening painful
      recollections of her stay at Aldborough, into which I am not at liberty to
      enter. Don&rsquo;t acknowledge just yet that Mr. Kirke only knew her as Miss
      Bygrave of North Shingles when he found her in this house. Tell her boldly
      that he knew who she was, and that he felt (what she must feel) that he
      had a hereditary right to help and protect her as his father&rsquo;s son. I am,
      as I have already told you,&rdquo; continued the captain, sticking fast to his
      old assertion, &ldquo;a distant relative of the Combe-Raven family; and, if
      there is nobody else at hand to help you through this difficulty, my
      services are freely at your disposal.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      No one else was at hand, and the emergency was a serious one. Strangers
      undertaking the responsibility might ignorantly jar on past recollections,
      which it would, perhaps, be the death of her to revive too soon. Near
      relatives might, by their premature appearance at the bedside, produce the
      same deplorable result. The alternative lay between irritating and
      alarming her by leaving her inquiries unanswered, or trusting Captain
      Wragge. In the doctor&rsquo;s opinion, the second risk was the least serious
      risk of the two&mdash;and the captain was now seated at Magdalen&rsquo;s bedside
      in discharge of the trust confided to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Would she ask the question which it had been the private object of all
      Captain Wragge&rsquo;s preliminary talk lightly and pleasantly to provoke? Yes;
      as soon as his silence gave her the opportunity, she asked it: &ldquo;Who was
      that friend of his living in the house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You ought by rights to know him as well as I do,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;He
      is the son of one of your father&rsquo;s old military friends, when your father
      was quartered with his regiment in Canada. Your cheeks mustn&rsquo;t flush up!
      If they do, I shall go away.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She was astonished, but not agitated. Captain Wragge had begun by
      interesting her in the remote past, which she only knew by hearsay, before
      he ventured on the delicate ground of her own experience.
    </p>
    <p>
      In a moment more she advanced to her next question: &ldquo;What was his name?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Kirke,&rdquo; proceeded the captain. &ldquo;Did you never hear of his father, Major
      Kirke, commanding officer of the regiment in Canada? Did you never hear
      that the major helped your father through a great difficulty, like the
      best of good fellows and good friends?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Yes; she faintly fancied she had heard something about her father and an
      officer who had once been very good to him when he was a young man. But
      she could not look back so long. &ldquo;Was Mr. Kirke poor?&rdquo; Even Captain
      Wragge&rsquo;s penetration was puzzled by that question. He gave the true answer
      at hazard. &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;not poor.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her next inquiry showed what she had been thinking of. &ldquo;If Mr. Kirke was
      not poor, why did he come to live in that house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;She has caught me!&rdquo; thought the captain. &ldquo;There is only one way out of it&mdash;I
      must administer another dose of truth. Mr. Kirke discovered you here by
      chance,&rdquo; he proceeded, aloud, &ldquo;very ill, and not nicely attended to.
      Somebody was wanted to take care of you while you were not able to take
      care of yourself. Why not Mr. Kirke? He was the son of your father&rsquo;s old
      friend&mdash;which is the next thing to being <i>your</i> old friend. Who
      had a better claim to send for the right doctor, and get the right nurse,
      when I was not here to cure you with my wonderful Pill? Gently! gently!
      you mustn&rsquo;t take hold of my superfine black coat-sleeve in that
      unceremonious manner.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He put her hand back on the bed, but she was not to be checked in that
      way. She persisted in asking another question.&mdash;How came Mr. Kirke to
      know her? She had never seen him; she had never heard of him in her life.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very likely,&rdquo; said Captain Wragge. &ldquo;But your never having seen <i>him</i>
      is no reason why he should not have seen <i>you</i>.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;When did he see me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The captain corked up his doses of truth on the spot without a moment&rsquo;s
      hesitation. &ldquo;Some time ago, my dear. I can&rsquo;t exactly say when.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Only once?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Captain Wragge suddenly saw his way to the administration of another dose.
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;only once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She reflected a little. The next question involved the simultaneous
      expression of two ideas, and the next question cost her an effort.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;He only saw me once,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and he only saw me some time ago. How
      came he to remember me when he found me here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;Now you have hit the right nail on the head at
      last. You can&rsquo;t possibly be more surprised at his remembering you than I
      am. A word of advice, my dear. When you are well enough to get up and see
      Mr. Kirke, try how that sharp question of yours sounds in <i>his</i> ears,
      and insist on his answering it himself.&rdquo; Slipping out of the dilemma in
      that characteristically adroit manner, Captain Wragge got briskly on his
      legs again and took up his hat.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait!&rdquo; she pleaded. &ldquo;I want to ask you&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not another word,&rdquo; said the captain. &ldquo;I have given you quite enough to
      think of for one day. My time is up, and my gig is waiting for me. I am
      off, to scour the country as usual. I am off, to cultivate the field of
      public indigestion with the triple plowshare of aloes, scammony and
      gamboge.&rdquo; He stopped and turned round at the door. &ldquo;By-the-by, a message
      from my unfortunate wife. If you will allow her to come and see you again,
      Mrs. Wragge solemnly promises <i>not</i> to lose her shoe next time. <i>I</i>
      don&rsquo;t believe her. What do you say? May she come?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; whenever she likes,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;If I ever get well again, may
      poor Mrs. Wragge come and stay with me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Certainly, my dear. If you have no objection, I will provide her
      beforehand with a few thousand impressions in red, blue, and yellow of her
      own portrait (&lsquo;You might have blown this patient away with a feather
      before she took the Pill. Look at her now!&rsquo;). She is sure to drop herself
      about perpetually wherever she goes, and the most gratifying results, in
      an advertising point of view, must inevitably follow. Don&rsquo;t think me
      mercenary&mdash;I merely understand the age I live in.&rdquo; He stopped on his
      way out, for the second time, and turned round once more at the door. &ldquo;You
      have been a remarkably good girl,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;and you deserve to be
      rewarded for it. I&rsquo;ll give you a last piece of information before I go.
      Have you heard anybody inquiring after you, for the last day or two,
      outside your door? Ah! I see you have. A word in your ear, my dear. That&rsquo;s
      Mr. Kirke.&rdquo; He tripped away from the bedside as briskly as ever. Magdalen
      heard him advertising himself to the nurse before he closed the door. &ldquo;If
      you are ever asked about it,&rdquo; he said, in a confidential whisper, &ldquo;the
      name is Wragge, and the Pill is to be had in neat boxes, price thirteen
      pence half-penny, government stamp included. Take a few copies of the
      portrait of a female patient, whom you might have blown away with a
      feather before she took the Pill, and whom you are simply requested to
      contemplate now. Many thanks. <i>Good</i>-morning.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The door closed and Magdalen was alone again. She felt no sense of
      solitude; Captain Wragge had left her with something new to think of. Hour
      after hour her mind dwelt wonderingly on Mr. Kirke, until the evening
      came, and she heard his voice again through the half-opened door.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am very grateful,&rdquo; she said to him, before the nurse could answer his
      inquiries&mdash;&ldquo;very, very grateful for all your goodness to me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Try to get well,&rdquo; he replied, kindly. &ldquo;You will more than reward me, if
      you try to get well.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The next morning Mr. Merrick found her impatient to leave her bed, and be
      moved to the sofa in the front room. The doctor said he supposed she
      wanted a change. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; she replied; &ldquo;I want to see Mr. Kirke.&rdquo; The doctor
      consented to move her on the next day, but he positively forbade the
      additional excitement of seeing anybody until the day after. She attempted
      a remonstrance&mdash;Mr. Merrick was impenetrable. She tried, when he was
      gone, to win the nurse by persuasion&mdash;the nurse was impenetrable,
      too.
    </p>
    <p>
      On the next day they wrapped her in shawls, and carried her in to the
      sofa, and made her a little bed on it. On the table near at hand were some
      flowers and a number of an illustrated paper. She immediately asked who
      had put them there. The nurse (failing to notice a warning look from the
      doctor) said Mr. Kirke had thought that she might like the flowers, and
      that the pictures in the paper might amuse her. After that reply, her
      anxiety to see Mr. Kirke became too ungovernable to be trifled with. The
      doctor left the room at once to fetch him.
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked eagerly at the opening door. Her first glance at him as he came
      in raised a doubt in her mind whether she now saw that tall figure and
      that open sun-burned face for the first time. But she was too weak and too
      agitated to follow her recollections as far back as Aldborough. She
      resigned the attempt, and only looked at him. He stopped at the foot of
      the sofa and said a few cheering words. She beckoned to him to come
      nearer, and offered him her wasted hand. He tenderly took it in his, and
      sat down by her. They were both silent. His face told her of the sorrow
      and the sympathy which his silence would fain have concealed. She still
      held his hand&mdash;consciously now&mdash;as persistently as she had held
      it on the day when he found her. Her eyes closed, after a vain effort to
      speak to him, and the tears rolled slowly over her wan white cheeks.
    </p>
    <p>
      The doctor signed to Kirke to wait and give her time. She recovered a
      little and looked at him. &ldquo;How kind you have been to me!&rdquo; she murmured.
      &ldquo;And how little I have deserved it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hush! hush!&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know what a happiness it was to me to
      help you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The sound of his voice seemed to strengthen her, and to give her courage.
      She lay looking at him with an eager interest, with a gratitude which
      artlessly ignored all the conventional restraints that interpose between a
      woman and a man. &ldquo;Where did you see me,&rdquo; she said, suddenly, &ldquo;before you
      found me here?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Kirke hesitated. Mr. Merrick came to his assistance.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I forbid you to say a word about the past to Mr. Kirke,&rdquo; interposed the
      doctor; &ldquo;and I forbid Mr. Kirke to say a word about it to <i>you.</i> You
      are beginning a new life to-day, and the only recollections I sanction are
      recollections five minutes old.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked at the doctor and smiled. &ldquo;I must ask him one question,&rdquo; she
      said, and turned back again to Kirke. &ldquo;Is it true that you had only seen
      me once before you came to this house?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite true!&rdquo; He made the reply with a sudden change of color which she
      instantly detected. Her brightening eyes looked at him more earnestly than
      ever, as she put her next question.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;How came you to remember me after only seeing me once?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His hand unconsciously closed on hers, and pressed it for the first time.
      He attempted to answer, and hesitated at the first word. &ldquo;I have a good
      memory,&rdquo; he said at last; and suddenly looked away from her with a
      confusion so strangely unlike his customary self-possession of manner that
      the doctor and the nurse both noticed it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Every nerve in her body felt that momentary pressure of his hand, with the
      exquisite susceptibility which accompanies the first faltering advance on
      the way to health. She looked at his changing color, she listened to his
      hesitating words, with every sensitive perception of her sex and age
      quickened to seize intuitively on the truth. In the moment when he looked
      away from her, she gently took her hand from him, and turned her head
      aside on the pillow. &ldquo;<i>Can</i> it be?&rdquo; she thought, with a flutter of
      delicious fear at her heart, with a glow of delicious confusion burning on
      her cheeks. &ldquo;<i>Can</i> it be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The doctor made another sign to Kirke. He understood it, and rose
      immediately. The momentary discomposure in his face and manner had both
      disappeared. He was satisfied in his own mind that he had successfully
      kept his secret, and in the relief of feeling that conviction he had
      become himself again.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-by till to-morrow,&rdquo; he said, as he left the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Good-by,&rdquo; she answered, softly, without looking at him.
    </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Merrick took the chair which Kirke had resigned, and laid his hand on
      her pulse. &ldquo;Just what I feared,&rdquo; remarked the doctor; &ldquo;too quick by half.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She petulantly snatched away her wrist. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t!&rdquo; she said, shrinking from
      him. &ldquo;Pray don&rsquo;t touch me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Mr. Merrick good-humoredly gave up his place to the nurse. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll return in
      half an hour,&rdquo; he whispered, &ldquo;and carry her back to bed. Don&rsquo;t let her
      talk. Show her the pictures in the newspaper, and keep her quiet in that
      way.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      When the doctor returned, the nurse reported that the newspaper had not
      been wanted. The patient&rsquo;s conduct had been exemplary. She had not been at
      all restless, and she had never spoken a word.
    </p>
    <p>
      The days passed, and the time grew longer and longer which the doctor
      allowed her to spend in the front room. She was soon able to dispense with
      the bed on the sofa&mdash;she could be dressed, and could sit up,
      supported by pillows, in an arm-chair. Her hours of emancipation from the
      bedroom represented the great daily event of her life. They were the hours
      she passed in Kirke&rsquo;s society.
    </p>
    <p>
      She had a double interest in him now&mdash;her interest in the man whose
      protecting care had saved her reason and her life; her interest in the man
      whose heart&rsquo;s deepest secret she had surprised. Little by little they grew
      as easy and familiar with each other as old friends; little by little she
      presumed on all her privileges, and wound her way unsuspected into the
      most intimate knowledge of his nature.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her questions were endless. Everything that he could tell her of himself
      and his life she drew from him delicately and insensibly: he, the least
      self-conscious of mankind, became an egotist in her dexterous hands. She
      found out his pride in his ship, and practiced on it without remorse. She
      drew him into talking of the fine qualities of the vessel, of the great
      things the vessel had done in emergencies, as he had never in his life
      talked yet to any living creature on shore. She found him out in private
      seafaring anxieties and unutterable seafaring exultations which he had
      kept a secret from his own mate. She watched his kindling face with a
      delicious sense of triumph in adding fuel to the fire; she trapped him
      into forgetting all considerations of time and place, and striking as
      hearty a stroke on the rickety little lodging-house table, in the fervor
      of his talk, as if his hand had descended on the solid bulwark of his
      ship. His confusion at the discovery of his own forgetfulness secretly
      delighted her; she could have cried with pleasure when he penitently
      wondered what he could possibly have been thinking of.
    </p>
    <p>
      At other times she drew him from dwelling on the pleasures of his life,
      and led him into talking of its perils&mdash;the perils of that jealous
      mistress the sea, which had absorbed so much of his existence, which had
      kept him so strangely innocent and ignorant of the world on shore. Twice
      he had been shipwrecked. Times innumerable he and all with him had been
      threatened with death, and had escaped their doom by the narrowness of a
      hair-breadth. He was always unwilling at the outset to speak of this dark
      and dreadful side of his life: it was only by adroitly tempting him, by
      laying little snares for him in his talk, that she lured him into telling
      her of the terrors of the great deep. She sat listening to him with a
      breathless interest, looking at him with a breathless wonder, as those
      fearful stories&mdash;made doubly vivid by the simple language in which he
      told them&mdash;fell, one by one, from his lips. His noble unconsciousness
      of his own heroism&mdash;the artless modesty with which he described his
      own acts of dauntless endurance and devoted courage, without an idea that
      they were anything more than plain acts of duty to which he was bound by
      the vocation that he followed&mdash;raised him to a place in her
      estimation so hopelessly high above her that she became uneasy and
      impatient until she had pulled down the idol again which she herself had
      set up. It was on these occasions that she most rigidly exacted from him
      all those little familiar attentions so precious to women in their
      intercourse with men. &ldquo;This hand,&rdquo; she thought, with an exquisite delight
      in secretly following the idea while he was close to her&mdash;&ldquo;this hand
      that has rescued the drowning from death is shifting my pillows so
      tenderly that I hardly know when they are moved. This hand that has seized
      men mad with mutiny, and driven them back to their duty by main force, is
      mixing my lemonade and peeling my fruit more delicately and more neatly
      than I could do it for myself. Oh, if I could be a man, how I should like
      to be such a man as this!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She never allowed her thoughts, while she was in his presence, to lead her
      beyond that point. It was only when the night had separated them that she
      ventured to let her mind dwell on the self-sacrificing devotion which had
      so mercifully rescued her. Kirke little knew how she thought of him, in
      the secrecy of her own chamber, during the quiet hours that elapsed before
      she sank to sleep. No suspicion crossed his mind of the influence which he
      was exerting over her&mdash;of the new spirit which he was breathing into
      that new life, so sensitively open to impression in the first freshness of
      its recovered sense. &ldquo;She has nobody else to amuse her, poor thing,&rdquo; he
      used to think, sadly, sitting alone in his small second-floor room. &ldquo;If a
      rough fellow like me can beguile the weary hours till her friends come
      here, she is heartily welcome to all that I can tell her.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was out of spirits and restless now whenever he was by himself. Little
      by little he fell into a habit of taking long, lonely walks at night, when
      Magdalen thought he was sleeping upstairs. Once he went away abruptly in
      the day-time&mdash;on business, as he said. Something had passed between
      Magdalen and himself the evening before which had led her into telling him
      her age. &ldquo;Twenty last birthday,&rdquo; he thought. &ldquo;Take twenty from forty-one.
      An easy sum in subtraction&mdash;as easy a sum as my little nephew could
      wish for.&rdquo; He walked to the Docks, and looked bitterly at the shipping. &ldquo;I
      mustn&rsquo;t forget how a ship is made,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It won&rsquo;t be long before I am
      back at the old work again.&rdquo; On leaving the Docks he paid a visit to a
      brother sailor&mdash;a married man. In the course of conversation he asked
      how much older his friend might be than his friend&rsquo;s wife. There was six
      years&rsquo; difference between them. &ldquo;I suppose that&rsquo;s difference enough?&rdquo; said
      Kirke. &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said his friend; &ldquo;quite enough. Are you looking out for a
      wife at last? Try a seasoned woman of thirty-five&mdash;that&rsquo;s your mark,
      Kirke, as near as I can calculate.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The time passed smoothly and quickly&mdash;the present time, in which <i>she</i>
      was recovering so happily&mdash;the present time, which <i>he</i> was
      beginning to distrust already.
    </p>
    <p>
      Early one morning Mr. Merrick surprised Kirke by a visit in his little
      room on the second floor.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I came to the conclusion yesterday,&rdquo; said the doctor, entering abruptly
      on his business, &ldquo;that our patient was strong enough to justify us at last
      in running all risks, and communicating with her friends; and I have
      accordingly followed the clew which that queer fellow, Captain Wragge, put
      into our hands. You remember he advised us to apply to Mr. Pendril, the
      lawyer? I saw Mr. Pendril two days ago, and was referred by him&mdash;not
      overwillingly, as I thought&mdash;to a lady named Miss Garth. I heard
      enough from her to satisfy me that we have exercised a wise caution in
      acting as we have done. It is a very, very sad story; and I am bound to
      say that I, for one, make great allowances for the poor girl downstairs.
      Her only relation in the world is her elder sister. I have suggested that
      the sister shall write to her in the first instance, and then, if the
      letter does her no harm, follow it personally in a day or two. I have not
      given the address, by way of preventing any visits from being paid here
      without my permission. All I have done is to undertake to forward the
      letter, and I shall probably find it at my house when I get back. Can you
      stop at home until I send my man with it? There is not the least hope of
      my being able to bring it myself. All you need do is to watch for an
      opportunity when she is not in the front room, and to put the letter where
      she can see it when she comes in. The handwriting on the address will
      break the news before she opens the letter. Say nothing to her about it&mdash;take
      care that the landlady is within call&mdash;and leave her to herself. I
      know I can trust <i>you</i> to follow my directions, and that is why I ask
      you to do us this service. You look out of spirits this morning. Natural
      enough. You&rsquo;re used to plenty of fresh air, captain, and you&rsquo;re beginning
      to pine in this close place.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I ask a question, doctor? Is <i>she</i> pining in this close place,
      too? When her sister comes, will her sister take her away?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Decidedly, if my advice is followed. She will be well enough to be moved
      in a week or less. Good-day. You are certainly out of spirits, and your
      hand feels feverish. Pining for the blue water, captain&mdash;pining for
      the blue water!&rdquo; With that expression of opinion, the doctor cheerfully
      went out.
    </p>
    <p>
      In an hour the letter arrived. Kirke took it from the landlady
      reluctantly, and almost roughly, without looking at it. Having ascertained
      that Magdalen was still engaged at her toilet, and having explained to the
      landlady the necessity of remaining within call, he went downstairs
      immediately, and put the letter on the table in the front room. Magdalen
      heard the sound of the familiar step on the floor. &ldquo;I shall soon be
      ready,&rdquo; she called to him, through the door.
    </p>
    <p>
      He made no reply; he took his hat and went out. After a momentary
      hesitation, he turned his face eastward, and called on the ship-owners who
      employed him, at their office in Cornhill.
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER III.
    </h3>
    <p>
      MAGDALEN&rsquo;S first glance round the empty room showed her the letter on the
      table. The address, as the doctor had predicted, broke the news the moment
      she looked at it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Not a word escaped her. She sat down by the table, pale and silent, with
      the letter in her lap. Twice she attempted to open it, and twice she put
      it back again. The bygone time was not alone in her mind as she looked at
      her sister&rsquo;s handwriting: the fear of Kirke was there with it. &ldquo;My past
      life!&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;What will he think of me when he knows my past life?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She made another effort, and broke the seal. A second letter dropped out
      of the inclosure, addressed to her in a handwriting with which she was not
      familiar. She put the second letter aside and read the lines which Norah
      had written:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Ventnor, Isle of Wight, August 24th.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAREST MAGDALEN&mdash;When you read this letter, try to think we have
      only been parted since yesterday; and dismiss from your mind (as I have
      dismissed from mine) the past and all that belongs to it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am strictly forbidden to agitate you, or to weary you by writing a long
      letter. Is it wrong to tell you that I am the happiest woman living? I
      hope not, for I can&rsquo;t keep the secret to myself.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My darling, prepare yourself for the greatest surprise I have ever caused
      you. I am married. It is only a week to-day since I parted with my old
      name&mdash;it is only a week since I have been the happy wife of George
      Bartram, of St. Crux.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;There were difficulties at first in the way of our marriage, some of
      them, I am afraid, of my making. Happily for me, my husband knew from the
      beginning that I really loved him: he gave me a second chance of telling
      him so, after I had lost the first, and, as you see, I was wise enough to
      take it. You ought to be especially interested, my love, in this marriage,
      for you are the cause of it. If I had not gone to Aldborough to search for
      the lost trace of you&mdash;if George had not been brought there at the
      same time by circumstances in which you were concerned, my husband and I
      might never have met. When we look back to our first impressions of each
      other, we look back to <i>you</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I must keep my promise not to weary you; I must bring this letter (sorely
      against my will) to an end. Patience! patience! I shall see you soon.
      George and I are both coming to London to take you back with us to
      Ventnor. This is my husband&rsquo;s invitation, mind, as well as mine. Don&rsquo;t
      suppose I married him, Magdalen, until I had taught him to think of you as
      I think&mdash;to wish with my wishes, and to hope with my hopes. I could
      say so much more about this, so much more about George, if I might only
      give my thoughts and my pen their own way; but I must leave Miss Garth (at
      her own special request) a blank space to fill up on the last page of this
      letter; and I must only add one word more before I say good-by&mdash;a
      word to warn you that I have another surprise in store, which I am keeping
      in reserve until we meet. Don&rsquo;t attempt to guess what it is. You might
      guess for ages, and be no nearer than you are now to the discovery of the
      truth. Your affectionate sister,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;NORAH BARTRAM.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      <i>(Added by Miss Garth.)</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;MY DEAR CHILD&mdash;If I had ever lost my old loving recollection of you,
      I should feel it in my heart again now, when I know that it has pleased
      God to restore you to us from the brink of the grave. I add these lines to
      your sister&rsquo;s letter because I am not sure that you are quite so fit yet,
      as she thinks you, to accept her proposal. She has not said a word of her
      husband or herself which is not true. But Mr. Bartram is a stranger to
      you; and if you think you can recover more easily and more pleasantly to
      yourself under the wing of your old governess than under the protection of
      your new brother-in-law, come to me first, and trust to my reconciling
      Norah to the change of plans. I have secured the refusal of a little
      cottage at Shanklin, near enough to your sister to allow of your seeing
      each other whenever you like, and far enough away, at the same time, to
      secure you the privilege, when you wish it, of being alone. Send me one
      line before we meet to say Yes or No, and I will write to Shanklin by the
      next post.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Always yours affectionately,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;HARRIET GARTH&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The letter dropped from Magdalen&rsquo;s hand. Thoughts which had never risen in
      her mind yet rose in it now.
    </p>
    <p>
      Norah, whose courage under undeserved calamity had been the courage of
      resignation&mdash;Norah, who had patiently accepted her hard lot; who from
      first to last had meditated no vengeance and stooped to no deceit&mdash;Norah
      had reached the end which all her sister&rsquo;s ingenuity, all her sister&rsquo;s
      resolution, and all her sister&rsquo;s daring had failed to achieve. Openly and
      honorably, with love on one side and love on the other, Norah had married
      the man who possessed the Combe-Raven money&mdash;and Magdalen&rsquo;s own
      scheme to recover it had opened the way to the event which had brought
      husband and wife together.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the light of that overwhelming discovery broke on her mind, the old
      strife was renewed; and Good and Evil struggled once more which should win
      her&mdash;but with added forces this time; with the new spirit that had
      been breathed into her new life; with the nobler sense that had grown with
      the growth of her gratitude to the man who had saved her, fighting on the
      better side. All the higher impulses of her nature, which had never, from
      first to last, let her err with impunity&mdash;which had tortured her,
      before her marriage and after it, with the remorse that no woman
      inherently heartless and inherently wicked can feel&mdash;all the nobler
      elements in her character, gathered their forces for the crowning struggle
      and strengthened her to meet, with no unworthy shrinking, the revelation
      that had opened on her view. Clearer and clearer, in the light of its own
      immortal life, the truth rose before her from the ashes of her dead
      passions, from the grave of her buried hopes. When she looked at the
      letter again&mdash;when she read the words once more which told her that
      the recovery of the lost fortune was her sister&rsquo;s triumph, not hers, she
      had victoriously trampled down all little jealousies and all mean regrets;
      she could say in her hearts of hearts, &ldquo;Norah has deserved it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      The day wore on. She sat absorbed in her own thoughts, and heedless of the
      second letter which she had not opened yet, until Kirke&rsquo;s return.
    </p>
    <p>
      He stopped on the landing outside, and, opening the door a little way
      only, asked, without entering the room, if she wanted anything that he
      could send her. She begged him to come in. His face was worn and weary; he
      looked older than she had seen him look yet. &ldquo;Did you put my letter on the
      table for me?&rdquo; she asked.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. I put it there at the doctor&rsquo;s request.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I suppose the doctor told you it was from my sister? She is coming to see
      me, and Miss Garth is coming to see me. They will thank you for all your
      goodness to me better than I can.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have no claim on their thanks,&rdquo; he answered, sternly. &ldquo;What I have done
      was not done for them, but for you.&rdquo; He waited a little, and looked at
      her. His face would have betrayed him in that look, his voice would have
      betrayed him in the next words he spoke, if she had not guessed the truth
      already. &ldquo;When your friends come here,&rdquo; he resumed, &ldquo;they will take you
      away, I suppose, to some better place than this.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;They can take me to no place,&rdquo; she said, gently, &ldquo;which I shall think of
      as I think of the place where you found me. They can take me to no dearer
      friend than the friend who saved my life.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      There was a moment&rsquo;s silence between them.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;We have been very happy here,&rdquo; he went on, in lower and lower tones. &ldquo;You
      won&rsquo;t forget me when we have said good-by?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She turned pale as the words passed his lips, and, leaving her chair,
      knelt down at the table, so as to look up into his face, and to force him
      to look into hers.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why do you talk of it?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;We are not going to say good-by, at
      least not yet.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought&mdash;&rdquo; he began.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I thought your friends were coming here&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She eagerly interrupted him. &ldquo;Do you think I would go away with anybody,&rdquo;
       she said, &ldquo;even with the dearest relation I have in the world, and leave
      you here, not knowing and not caring whether I ever saw you again? Oh, you
      don&rsquo;t think that of me!&rdquo; she exclaimed, with the passionate tears
      springing into her eyes&mdash;&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure you don&rsquo;t think that of me!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;I never have thought, I never can think, unjustly or
      unworthily of you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Before he could add another word she left the table as suddenly as she had
      approached it, and returned to her chair. He had unconsciously replied in
      terms that reminded her of the hard necessity which still remained
      unfulfilled&mdash;the necessity of telling him the story of the past. Not
      an idea of concealing that story from his knowledge crossed her mind.
      &ldquo;Will he love me, when he knows the truth, as he loves me now?&rdquo; That was
      her only thought as she tried to approach the subject in his presence
      without shrinking from it.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let us put my own feelings out of the question,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;There is a
      reason for my not going away, unless I first have the assurance of seeing
      you again. You have a claim&mdash;the strongest claim of any one&mdash;to
      know how I came here, unknown to my friends, and how it was that you found
      me fallen so low.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I make no claim,&rdquo; he said, hastily. &ldquo;I wish to know nothing which
      distresses you to tell me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have always done your duty,&rdquo; she rejoined, with a faint smile. &ldquo;Let
      me take example from you, if I can, and try to do mine.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I am old enough to be your father,&rdquo; he said, bitterly. &ldquo;Duty is more
      easily done at my age than it is at yours.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      His age was so constantly in his mind now that he fancied it must be in
      her mind too. She had never given it a thought. The reference he had just
      made to it did not divert her for a moment from the subject on which she
      was speaking to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know how I value your good opinion of me,&rdquo; she said, struggling
      resolutely to sustain her sinking courage. &ldquo;How can I deserve your
      kindness, how can I feel that I am worthy of your regard, until I have
      opened my heart to you? Oh, don&rsquo;t encourage me in my own miserable
      weakness! Help me to tell the truth&mdash;<i>force</i> me to tell it, for
      my own sake if not for yours!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He was deeply moved by the fervent sincerity of that appeal.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You <i>shall</i> tell it,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;You are right&mdash;and I was
      wrong.&rdquo; He waited a little, and considered. &ldquo;Would it be easier to you,&rdquo;
       he asked, with delicate consideration for her, &ldquo;to write it than to tell
      it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She caught gratefully at the suggestion. &ldquo;Far easier,&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;I can
      be sure of myself&mdash;I can be sure of hiding nothing from you, if I
      write it. Don&rsquo;t write to me on your side!&rdquo; she added, suddenly, seeing
      with a woman&rsquo;s instinctive quickness of penetration the danger of totally
      renouncing her personal influence over him. &ldquo;Wait till we meet, and tell
      me with your own lips what you think.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Where shall I tell it?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Here!&rdquo; she said eagerly. &ldquo;Here, where you found me helpless&mdash;here,
      where you have brought me back to life, and where I have first learned to
      know you. I can bear the hardest words you say to me if you will only say
      them in this room. It is impossible I can be away longer than a month; a
      month will be enough and more than enough. If I come back&mdash;&rdquo; She
      stopped confusedly. &ldquo;I am thinking of myself,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;when I ought to
      be thinking of you. You have your own occupations and your own friends.
      Will you decide for us? Will you say how it shall be?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It shall be as you wish. If you come back in a month, you will find me
      here.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will it cause you no sacrifice of your own comfort and your own plans?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It will cause me nothing,&rdquo; he replied, &ldquo;but a journey back to the City.&rdquo;
       He rose and took his hat. &ldquo;I must go there at once,&rdquo; he added, &ldquo;or I shall
      not be in time.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It is a promise between us?&rdquo; she said, and held out her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he answered, a little sadly; &ldquo;it is a promise.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Slight as it was, the shade of melancholy in his manner pained her.
      Forgetting all other anxieties in the anxiety to cheer him, she gently
      pressed the hand he gave her. &ldquo;If <i>that</i> won&rsquo;t tell him the truth,&rdquo;
       she thought, &ldquo;nothing will.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      It failed to tell him the truth; but it forced a question on his mind
      which he had not ventured to ask himself before. &ldquo;Is it her gratitude, or
      her love; that is speaking to me?&rdquo; he wondered. &ldquo;If I was only a younger
      man, I might almost hope it was her love.&rdquo; That terrible sum in
      subtraction which had first presented itself on the day when she told him
      her age began to trouble him again as he left the house. He took twenty
      from forty-one, at intervals, all the way back to the ship-owners&rsquo; office
      in Cornhill.
    </p>
    <p>
      Left by herself, Magdalen approached the table to write the line of answer
      which Miss Garth requested, and gratefully to accept the proposal that had
      been made to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The second letter which she had laid aside and forgotten was the first
      object that caught her eye on changing her place. She opened it
      immediately, and, not recognizing the handwriting, looked at the
      signature. To her unutterable astonishment, her correspondent proved to be
      no less a person than&mdash;old Mr. Clare!
    </p>
    <p>
      The philosopher&rsquo;s letter dispensed with all the ordinary forms of address,
      and entered on the subject without prefatory phrases of any kind, in these
      uncompromising terms:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have more news for you of that contemptible cur, my son. Here it is in
      the fewest possible words.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I always told you, if you remember, that Frank was a Sneak. The very
      first trace recovered of him, after his running away from his employers in
      China, presents him in that character. Where do you think he turns up
      next? He turns up, hidden behind a couple of flour barrels, on board an
      English vessel bound homeward from Hong-Kong to London.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The name of the ship was the <i>Deliverance</i>, and the commander was
      one Captain Kirke. Instead of acting like a sensible man, and throwing
      Frank overboard, Captain Kirke was fool enough to listen to his story. He
      made the most of his misfortunes, you may be sure. He was half starved; he
      was an Englishman lost in a strange country, without a friend to help him;
      his only chance of getting home was to sneak into the hold of an English
      vessel&mdash;and he had sneaked in, accordingly, at Hong-Kong, two days
      since. That was his story. Any other lout in Frank&rsquo;s situation would have
      been rope&rsquo;s ended by any other captain. Deserving no pity from anybody,
      Frank was, as a matter of course, coddled and compassionated on the spot.
      The captain took him by the hand, the crew pitied him, and the passengers
      patted him on the back. He was fed, clothed, and presented with his
      passage home. Luck enough so far, you will say. Nothing of the sort;
      nothing like luck enough for my despicable son.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;The ship touched at the Cape of Good Hope. Among his other acts of folly
      Captain Kirke took a woman passenger on board at that place&mdash;not a
      young woman by any means&mdash;the elderly widow of a rich colonist. Is it
      necessary to say that she forthwith became deeply interested in Frank and
      his misfortunes? Is it necessary to tell you what followed? Look back at
      my son&rsquo;s career, and you will see that what followed was all of a piece
      with what went before. He didn&rsquo;t deserve your poor father&rsquo;s interest in
      him&mdash;and he got it. He didn&rsquo;t deserve your attachment&mdash;and he
      got it. He didn&rsquo;t deserve the best place in one of the best offices in
      London; he didn&rsquo;t deserve an equally good chance in one of the best
      mercantile houses in China; he didn&rsquo;t deserve food, clothing, pity, and a
      free passage home&mdash;and he got them all. Last, not least, he didn&rsquo;t
      even deserve to marry a woman old enough to be his grandmother&mdash;and
      he has done it! Not five minutes since I sent his wedding-cards out to the
      dust-hole, and tossed the letter that came with them into the fire. The
      last piece of information which that letter contains is that he and his
      wife are looking out for a house and estate to suit them. Mark my words!
      Frank will get one of the best estates in England; a seat in the House of
      Commons will follow as a matter of course; and one of the legislators of
      this Ass-ridden country will be&mdash;MY LOUT!
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If you are the sensible girl I have always taken you for, you have long
      since learned to rate Frank at his true value, and the news I send you
      will only confirm your contempt for him. I wish your poor father could but
      have lived to see this day! Often as I have missed my old gossip, I don&rsquo;t
      know that I ever felt the loss of him so keenly as I felt it when Frank&rsquo;s
      wedding-cards and Frank&rsquo;s letter came to this house. Your friend, if you
      ever want one,
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;FRANCIS CLARE, Sen.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With one momentary disturbance of her composure, produced by the
      appearance of Kirke&rsquo;s name in Mr. Clare&rsquo;s singular narrative, Magdalen
      read the letter steadily through from beginning to end. The time when it
      could have distressed her was gone by; the scales had long since fallen
      from her eyes. Mr. Clare himself would have been satisfied if he had seen
      the quiet contempt on her face as she laid aside his letter. The only
      serious thought it cost her was a thought in which Kirke was concerned.
      The careless manner in which he had referred in her presence to the
      passengers on board his ship, without mentioning any of them by their
      names, showed her that Frank must have kept silence on the subject of the
      engagement once existing between them. The confession of that vanished
      delusion was left for her to make, as part of the story of the past which
      she had pledged herself unreservedly to reveal.
    </p>
    <p>
      She wrote to Miss Garth, and sent the letter to the post immediately.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next morning brought a line of rejoinder. Miss Garth had written to
      secure the cottage at Shanklin, and Mr. Merrick had consented to
      Magdalen&rsquo;s removal on the following day. Norah would be the first to
      arrive at the house; and Miss Garth would follow, with a comfortable
      carriage to take the invalid to the railway. Every needful arrangement had
      been made for her; the effort of moving was the one effort she would have
      to make.
    </p>
    <p>
      Magdalen read the letter thankfully, but her thoughts wandered from it,
      and followed Kirke on his return to the City. What was the business which
      had once already taken him there in the morning? And why had the promise
      exchanged between them obliged him to go to the City again, for the second
      time in one day?
    </p>
    <p>
      Was it by any chance business relating to the sea? Were his employers
      tempting him to go back to his ship?
    </p>
    <h3>
      CHAPTER IV.
    </h3>
    <p>
      THE first agitation of the meeting between the sisters was over; the first
      vivid impressions, half pleasurable, half painful, had softened a little,
      and Norah and Magdalen sat together hand in hand, each rapt in the silent
      fullness of her own joy. Magdalen was the first to speak.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You have something to tell me, Norah?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I have a thousand things to tell you, my love; and you have ten thousand
      things to tell me.&mdash;Do you mean that second surprise which I told you
      of in my letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes. I suppose it must concern me very nearly, or you would hardly have
      thought of mentioning it in your first letter?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;It does concern you very nearly. You have heard of George&rsquo;s house in
      Essex? You must be familiar, at least, with the name of St. Crux?&mdash;What
      is there to start at, my dear? I am afraid you are hardly strong enough
      for any more surprises just yet?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Quite strong enough, Norah. I have something to say to you about St. Crux&mdash;I
      have a surprise, on my side, for <i>you.</i>&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Will you tell it me now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not now. You shall know it when we are at the seaside; you shall know it
      before I accept the kindness which has invited me to your husband&rsquo;s
      house.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;What <i>can</i> it be? Why not tell me at once?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You used often to set me the example of patience, Norah, in old times;
      will you set me the example now?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With all my heart. Shall I return to my own story as well? Yes? Then we
      will go back to it at once. I was telling you that St. Crux is George&rsquo;s
      house, in Essex, the house he inherited from his uncle. Knowing that Miss
      Garth had a curiosity to see the place, he left word (when he went abroad
      after the admiral&rsquo;s death) that she and any friends who came with her were
      to be admitted, if she happened to find herself in the neighborhood during
      his absence. Miss Garth and I, and a large party of Mr. Tyrrel&rsquo;s friends,
      found ourselves in the neighborhood not long after George&rsquo;s departure. We
      had all been invited to see the launch of Mr. Tyrrel&rsquo;s new yacht from the
      builder&rsquo;s yard at Wivenhoe, in Essex. When the launch was over, the rest
      of the company returned to Colchester to dine. Miss Garth and I contrived
      to get into the same carriage together, with nobody but my two little
      pupils for our companions. We gave the coachman his orders, and drove
      round by St. Crux. The moment Miss Garth mentioned her name we were let
      in, and shown all over the house. I don&rsquo;t know how to describe it to you.
      It is the most bewildering place I ever saw in my life&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t attempt to describe it, Norah. Go on with your story instead.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Very well. My story takes me straight into one of the rooms at St. Crux&mdash;a
      room about as long as your street here&mdash;so dreary, so dirty, and so
      dreadfully cold that I shiver at the bare recollection of it. Miss Garth
      was for getting out of it again as speedily as possible, and so was I. But
      the housekeeper declined to let us off without first looking at a singular
      piece of furniture, the only piece of furniture in the comfortless place.
      She called it a tripod, I think. (There is nothing to be alarmed at,
      Magdalen; I assure you there is nothing to be alarmed at!) At any rate, it
      was a strange, three-legged thing, which supported a great panful of
      charcoal ashes at the top. It was considered by all good judges (the
      housekeeper told us) a wonderful piece of chasing in metal; and she
      especially pointed out the beauty of some scroll-work running round the
      inside of the pan, with Latin mottoes on it, signifying&mdash;I forget
      what. I felt not the slightest interest in the thing myself, but I looked
      close at the scroll-work to satisfy the housekeeper. To confess the truth,
      she was rather tiresome with her mechanically learned lecture on fine
      metal work; and, while she was talking, I found myself idly stirring the
      soft feathery white ashes backward and forward with my hand, pretending to
      listen, with my mind a hundred miles away from her. I don&rsquo;t know how long
      or how short a time I had been playing with the ashes, when my fingers
      suddenly encountered a piece of crumpled paper hidden deep among them.
      When I brought it to the surface, it proved to be a letter&mdash;a long
      letter full of cramped, close writing.&mdash;You have anticipated my
      story, Magdalen, before I can end it! You know as well as I do that the
      letter which my idle fingers found was the Secret Trust. Hold out your
      hand, my dear. I have got George&rsquo;s permission to show it to you, and there
      it is!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She put the Trust into her sister&rsquo;s hand. Magdalen took it from her
      mechanically. &ldquo;You!&rdquo; she said, looking at her sister with the remembrance
      of all that she had vainly ventured, of all that she had vainly suffered,
      at St. Crux&mdash;&ldquo;<i>you</i> have found it!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; said Norah, gayly; &ldquo;the Trust has proved no exception to the
      general perversity of all lost things. Look for them, and they remain
      invisible. Leave them alone, and they reveal themselves! You and your
      lawyer, Magdalen, were both justified in supposing that your interest in
      this discovery was an interest of no common kind. I spare you all our
      consultations after I had produced the crumpled paper from the ashes. It
      ended in George&rsquo;s lawyer being written to, and in George himself being
      recalled from the Continent. Miss Garth and I both saw him immediately on
      his return. He did what neither of us could do&mdash;he solved the mystery
      of the Trust being hidden in the charcoal ashes. Admiral Bartram, you must
      know, was all his life subject to fits of somnambulism. He had been found
      walking in his sleep not long before his death&mdash;just at the time,
      too, when he was sadly troubled in his mind on the subject of that very
      letter in your hand. George&rsquo;s idea is that he must have fancied he was
      doing in his sleep what he would have died rather than do in his waking
      moments&mdash;destroying the Trust. The fire had been lighted in the pan
      not long before, and he no doubt saw it still burning in his dream. This
      was George&rsquo;s explanation of the strange position of the letter when I
      discovered it. The question of what was to be done with the letter itself
      came next, and was no easy question for a woman to understand. But I
      determined to master it, and I did master it, because it related to you.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Let me try to master it, in my turn,&rdquo; said Magdalen. &ldquo;I have a particular
      reason for wishing to know as much about this letter as you know yourself.
      What has it done for others, and what is it to do for me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;My dear Magdalen, how strangely you look at it! how strangely you talk of
      it! Worthless as it may appear, that morsel of paper gives you a fortune.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is my only claim to the fortune the claim which this letter gives me?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes; the letter is your only claim. Shall I try if I can explain it in
      two words? Taken by itself, the letter might, in the lawyer&rsquo;s opinion,
      have been made a matter for dispute, though I am sure George would have
      sanctioned no proceeding of that sort. Taken, however, with the postscript
      which Admiral Bartram attached to it (you will see the lines if you look
      under the signature on the third page), it becomes legally binding, as
      well as morally binding, on the admiral&rsquo;s representatives. I have
      exhausted my small stock of legal words, and must go on in my own language
      instead of in the lawyer&rsquo;s. The end of the thing was simply this. All the
      money went back to Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s estate (another legal word! my
      vocabulary is richer than I thought), for one plain reason&mdash;that it
      had not been employed as Mr. Noel Vanstone directed. If Mrs. Girdlestone
      had lived, or if George had married me a few months earlier, results would
      have been just the other way. As it is, half the money has been already
      divided between Mr. Noel Vanstone&rsquo;s next of kin; which means, translated
      into plain English, my husband, and his poor bedridden sister&mdash;who
      took the money formally, one day, to satisfy the lawyer, and who gave it
      back again generously, the next, to satisfy herself. So much for one half
      of this legacy. The other half, my dear, is all yours. How strangely
      events happen, Magdalen! It is only two years since you and I were left
      disinherited orphans&mdash;and we are sharing our poor father&rsquo;s fortune
      between us, after all!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Wait a little, Norah. Our shares come to us in very different ways.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do they? Mine comes to me by my husband. Yours comes to you&mdash;&rdquo; She
      stopped confusedly, and changed color. &ldquo;Forgive me, my own love!&rdquo; she
      said, putting Magdalen&rsquo;s hand to her lips. &ldquo;I have forgotten what I ought
      to have remembered. I have thoughtlessly distressed you!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No!&rdquo; said Magdalen; &ldquo;you have encouraged me.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Encouraged you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You shall see.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      With those words, she rose quietly from the sofa, and walked to the open
      window. Before Norah could follow her, she had torn the Trust to pieces,
      and had cast the fragments into the street.
    </p>
    <p>
      She came back to the sofa and laid her head, with a deep sigh of relief,
      on Norah&rsquo;s bosom. &ldquo;I will owe nothing to my past life,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;I have
      parted with it as I have parted with those torn morsels of paper. All the
      thoughts and all the hopes belonging to it are put away from me forever!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Magdalen, my husband will never allow you! I will never allow you myself&mdash;&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Hush! hush! What your husband thinks right, Norah, you and I will think
      right too. I will take from <i>you</i> what I would never have taken if
      that letter had given it to me. The end I dreamed of has come. Nothing is
      changed but the position I once thought we might hold toward each other.
      Better as it is, my love&mdash;far, far better as it is!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      So she made the last sacrifice of the old perversity and the old pride. So
      she entered on the new and nobler life.
    </p>
    <p>
      * * * * * *
    </p>
    <p>
      A month had passed. The autumn sunshine was bright even in the murky
      streets, and the clocks in the neighborhood were just striking two, as
      Magdalen returned alone to the house in Aaron&rsquo;s Buildings.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is he waiting for me?&rdquo; she asked, anxiously, when the landlady let her
      in.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was waiting in the front room. Magdalen stole up the stairs and knocked
      at the door. He called to her carelessly and absently to come in, plainly
      thinking that it was only the servant who applied for permission to enter
      the room.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;You hardly expected me so soon?&rdquo; she said speaking on the threshold, and
      pausing there to enjoy his surprise as he started to his feet and looked
      at her.
    </p>
    <p>
      The only traces of illness still visible in her face left a delicacy in
      its outline which added refinement to her beauty. She was simply dressed
      in muslin. Her plain straw bonnet had no other ornament than the white
      ribbon with which it was sparingly trimmed. She had never looked lovelier
      in her best days than she looked now, as she advanced to the table at
      which he had been sitting, with a little basket of flowers that she had
      brought with her from the country, and offered him her hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      He looked anxious and careworn when she saw him closer. She interrupted
      his first inquiries and congratulations to ask if he had remained in
      London since they had parted&mdash;if he had not even gone away, for a few
      days only, to see his friends in Suffolk? No; he had been in London ever
      since. He never told her that the pretty parsonage house in Suffolk wanted
      all those associations with herself in which the poor four walls at
      Aaron&rsquo;s Buildings were so rich. He only said he had been in London ever
      since.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I wonder,&rdquo; she asked, looking him attentively in the face, &ldquo;if you are as
      happy to see me again as I am to see you?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Perhaps I am even happier, in my different way,&rdquo; he answered, with a
      smile.
    </p>
    <p>
      She took off her bonnet and scarf, and seated herself once more in her own
      arm-chair. &ldquo;I suppose this street is very ugly,&rdquo; she said; &ldquo;and I am sure
      nobody can deny that the house is very small. And yet&mdash;and yet it
      feels like coming home again. Sit there where you used to sit; tell me
      about yourself. I want to know all that you have done, all that you have
      thought even, while I have been away.&rdquo; She tried to resume the endless
      succession of questions by means of which she was accustomed to lure him
      into speaking of himself. But she put them far less spontaneously, far
      less adroitly, than usual. Her one all-absorbing anxiety in entering that
      room was not an anxiety to be trifled with. After a quarter of an hour
      wasted in constrained inquiries on one side, in reluctant replies on the
      other, she ventured near the dangerous subject at last.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you received the letters I wrote to you from the seaside?&rdquo; she
      asked, suddenly looking away from him for the first time.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said; &ldquo;all.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Have you read them?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Every one of them&mdash;many times over.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her heart beat as if it would suffocate her. She had kept her promise
      bravely. The whole story of her life, from the time of the home-wreck at
      Combe-Raven to the time when she had destroyed the Secret Trust in her
      sister&rsquo;s presence, had been all laid before him. Nothing that she had
      done, nothing even that she had thought, had been concealed from his
      knowledge. As he would have kept a pledged engagement with her, so she had
      kept her pledged engagement with him. She had not faltered in the
      resolution to do this; and now she faltered over the one decisive question
      which she had come there to ask. Strong as the desire in her was to know
      if she had lost or won him, the fear of knowing was at that moment
      stronger still. She waited and trembled; she waited, and said no more.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;May I speak to you about your letters?&rdquo; he asked. &ldquo;May I tell you&mdash;?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      If she had looked at him as he said those few words, she would have seen
      what he thought of her in his face. She would have seen, innocent as he
      was in this world&rsquo;s knowledge, that he knew the priceless value, the
      all-ennobling virtue, of a woman who speaks the truth. But she had no
      courage to look at him&mdash;no courage to raise her eyes from her lap.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Not just yet,&rdquo; she said, faintly. &ldquo;Not quite so soon after we have met
      again.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She rose hurriedly from her chair, and walked to the window, turned back
      again into the room, and approached the table, close to where he was
      sitting. The writing materials scattered near him offered her a pretext
      for changing the subject, and she seized on it directly. &ldquo;Were you writing
      a letter,&rdquo; she asked, &ldquo;when I came in?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was thinking about it,&rdquo; he replied. &ldquo;It was not a letter to be written
      without thinking first.&rdquo; He rose as he answered her to gather the writing
      materials together and put them away.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Why should I interrupt you?&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Why not let me try whether I
      can&rsquo;t help you instead? Is it a secret?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;No, not a secret.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He hesitated as he answered her. She instantly guessed the truth.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Is it about your ship?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He little knew how she had been thinking in her absence from him of the
      business which he believed that he had concealed from her. He little knew
      that she had learned already to be jealous of his ship. &ldquo;Do they want you
      to return to your old life?&rdquo; she went on. &ldquo;Do they want you to go back to
      the sea? Must you say Yes or No at once?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;At once.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;If I had not come in when I did would you have said Yes?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She unconsciously laid her hand on his arm, forgetting all inferior
      considerations in her breathless anxiety to hear his next words. The
      confession of his love was within a hair-breadth of escaping him; but he
      checked the utterance of it even yet. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t care for myself,&rdquo; he
      thought; &ldquo;but how can I be certain of not distressing <i>her?</i>&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Would you have said Yes?&rdquo; she repeated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;I was doubting,&rdquo; he answered&mdash;&ldquo;I was doubting between Yes and No.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      Her hand tightened on his arm; a sudden trembling seized her in every
      limb, she could bear it no longer. All her heart went out to him in her
      next words:
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Were you doubting <i>for my sake?&rdquo;</i>
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Take my confession in return for yours&mdash;I was
      doubting for your sake.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She said no more; she only looked at him. In that look the truth reached
      him at last. The next instant she was folded in his arms, and was shedding
      delicious tears of joy, with her face hidden on his bosom.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Do I deserve my happiness?&rdquo; she murmured, asking the one question at
      last. &ldquo;Oh, I know how the poor narrow people who have never felt and never
      suffered would answer me if I asked them what I ask you. If <i>they</i>
      knew my story, they would forget all the provocation, and only remember
      the offense; they would fasten on my sin, and pass all my suffering by.
      But you are not one of them! Tell me if you have any shadow of a
      misgiving! Tell me if you doubt that the one dear object of all my life to
      come is to live worthy of you! I asked you to wait and see me; I asked
      you, if there was any hard truth to be told, to tell it me here with your
      own lips. Tell it, my love, my husband!&mdash;tell it me now!&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      She looked up, still clinging to him as she clung to the hope of her
      better life to come.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Tell me the truth!&rdquo; she repeated.
    </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;With my own lips?&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      &ldquo;Yes!&rdquo; she answered, eagerly. &ldquo;Say what you think of me with your own
      lips.&rdquo;
     </p>
    <p>
      He stooped and kissed her.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
